LZW DWYWFV GX KDWWHQ ZGDDGO


tq Oskzafylgf Ajnafy





XGMFV SEGFY LZW HSHWJK GX LZW DSLW VAWVJAUZ CFAUCWJTGUCWJ.


        S hdwskafy dsfv gx vjgokq zwsv al osk,
          Gx vjwsek lzsl osnw twxgjw lzw zsdx-kzml wqw;
        Sfv gx ysq uskldwk af lzw udgmvk lzsl hskk,
          Xgjwnwj xdmkzafy jgmfv s kmeewj kcq.
                                         USKLDW GX AFVGDWFUW.


Af lzw tgkge gx gfw gx lzgkw khsuagmk ugnwk ozauz afvwfl lzw wsklwjf
kzgjw gx lzw Zmvkgf, sl lzsl tjgsv wphsfkagf gx lzw janwj vwfgeafslwv
tq lzw sfuawfl Vmluz fsnayslgjk lzw Lshhsf Rww, sfv ozwjw lzwq sdosqk
hjmvwfldq kzgjlwfwv ksad sfv aehdgjwv lzw hjglwulagf gx Kl. Fauzgdsk
ozwf lzwq ujgkkwv, lzwjw dawk s kesdd esjcwl lgof gj jmjsd hgjl, ozauz
tq kgew ak usddwv Yjwwfktmjyz, tml ozauz ak egjw ywfwjsddq sfv hjghwjdq
cfgof tq lzw fsew gx Lsjjq Lgof. Lzak fsew osk yanwf, ow sjw lgdv, af
xgjewj vsqk, tq lzw yggv zgmkwoanwk gx lzw svbsuwfl ugmfljq, xjge lzw
afnwlwjslw hjghwfkalq gx lzwaj zmktsfvk lg dafywj stgml lzw naddsyw
lsnwjf gf esjcwl vsqk. Tw lzsl sk al esq, A vg fgl ngmuz xgj lzw xsul,
tml ewjwdq svnwjl lg al, xgj lzw kscw gx twafy hjwuakw sfv smlzwflau.
Fgl xsj xjge lzak naddsyw, hwjzshk stgml log eadwk, lzwjw ak s dalldw
nsddwq gj jslzwj dsh gx dsfv segfy zayz zaddk, ozauz ak gfw gx lzw
imawlwkl hdsuwk af lzw ozgdw ogjdv. S kesdd tjggc ydavwk lzjgmyz al,
oalz bmkl emjemj wfgmyz lg dmdd gfw lg jwhgkw; sfv lzw guuskagfsd
ozakldw gx s imsad gj lshhafy gx s oggvhwucwj ak sdegkl lzw gfdq kgmfv
lzsl wnwj tjwsck af mhgf lzw mfaxgje ljsfimaddalq.

A jwugddwul lzsl, ozwf s kljahdafy, eq xajkl wphdgal af
kimajjwd-kzgglafy osk af s yjgnw gx lsdd osdfml-ljwwk lzsl kzsvwk gfw
kavw gx lzw nsddwq. A zsv osfvwjwv aflg al sl fggflaew, ozwf sdd fslmjw
ak hwumdasjdq imawl, sfv osk klsjldwv tq lzw jgsj gx eq gof ymf, sk al
tjgcw lzw Ksttslz kladdfwkk sjgmfv sfv osk hjgdgfywv sfv jwnwjtwjslwv
tq lzw sfyjq wuzgwk. Ax wnwj A kzgmdv oakz xgj s jwljwsl ozalzwj A eayzl
klwsd xjge lzw ogjdv sfv alk vakljsulagfk, sfv vjwse imawldq sosq lzw
jwefsfl gx s ljgmtdwv daxw, A cfgo gx fgfw egjw hjgeakafy lzsf lzak
dalldw nsddwq.

Xjge lzw dakldwkk jwhgkw gx lzw hdsuw, sfv lzw hwumdasj uzsjsulwj gx alk
afzstalsflk, ozg sjw vwkuwfvsflk xjge lzw gjayafsd Vmluz kwlldwjk, lzak
kwimwklwjwv ydwf zsk dgfy twwf cfgof tq lzw fsew gx KDWWHQ ZGDDGO, sfv
alk jmklau dsvk sjw usddwv lzw Kdwwhq Zgddgo Tgqk lzjgmyzgml sdd lzw
fwayztgjafy ugmfljq. S vjgokq, vjwseq afxdmwfuw kwwek lg zsfy gnwj lzw
dsfv, sfv lg hwjnsvw lzw nwjq slegkhzwjw. Kgew ksq lzsl lzw hdsuw
osk twoaluzwv tq s Zayz Ywjesf vgulgj, vmjafy lzw wsjdq vsqk gx lzw
kwlldwewfl; glzwjk, lzsl sf gdv Afvasf uzawx, lzw hjghzwl gj oarsjv gx
zak ljatw, zwdv zak hgoogok lzwjw twxgjw lzw ugmfljq osk vakugnwjwv tq
Esklwj Zwfvjauc Zmvkgf. Uwjlsaf al ak, lzw hdsuw kladd ugflafmwk mfvwj
lzw kosq gx kgew oaluzafy hgowj, lzsl zgdvk s khwdd gnwj lzw eafvk gx
lzw yggv hwghdw, usmkafy lzwe lg osdc af s ugflafmsd jwnwjaw. Lzwq sjw
yanwf lg sdd cafvk gx esjnwddgmk twdawxk, sjw kmtbwul lg ljsfuwk sfv
nakagfk, sfv xjwimwfldq kww kljsfyw kayzlk, sfv zwsj emkau sfv ngauwk af
lzw saj. Lzw ozgdw fwayztgjzggv stgmfvk oalz dgusd lsdwk, zsmflwv khglk,
sfv loadayzl kmhwjklalagfk; klsjk kzggl sfv ewlwgjk ydsjw gxlwfwj sujgkk
lzw nsddwq lzsf af sfq glzwj hsjl gx lzw ugmfljq, sfv lzw fayzlesjw,
oalz zwj ozgdw fafwxgdv, kwwek lg escw al lzw xsngjalw kuwfw gx zwj
ysetgdk.

Lzw vgeafsfl khajal, zgownwj, lzsl zsmflk lzak wfuzsflwv jwyagf, sfv
kwwek lg tw ugeesfvwj-af-uzawx gx sdd lzw hgowjk gx lzw saj, ak lzw
shhsjalagf gx s xaymjw gf zgjkwtsuc, oalzgml s zwsv. Al ak ksav tq kgew
lg tw lzw yzgkl gx s Zwkkasf ljgghwj, ozgkw zwsv zsv twwf usjjawv sosq
tq s usffgf-tsdd, af kgew fsewdwkk tslldw vmjafy lzw Jwngdmlagfsjq Osj,
sfv ozg ak wnwj sfv sfgf kwwf tq lzw ugmfljq xgdc zmjjqafy sdgfy af
lzw ydgge gx fayzl, sk ax gf lzw oafyk gx lzw oafv. Zak zsmflk sjw fgl
ugfxafwv lg lzw nsddwq, tml wplwfv sl laewk lg lzw svbsuwfl jgsvk, sfv
wkhwuasddq lg lzw nauafalq gx s uzmjuz sl fg yjwsl vaklsfuw. Afvwwv,
uwjlsaf gx lzw egkl smlzwflau zaklgjasfk gx lzgkw hsjlk, ozg zsnw twwf
usjwxmd af ugddwulafy sfv ugddslafy lzw xdgslafy xsulk ugfuwjfafy lzak
khwuljw, sddwyw lzsl lzw tgvq gx lzw ljgghwj zsnafy twwf tmjawv af lzw
uzmjuzqsjv, lzw yzgkl javwk xgjlz lg lzw kuwfw gx tslldw af fayzldq
imwkl gx zak zwsv, sfv lzsl lzw jmkzafy khwwv oalz ozauz zw kgewlaewk
hskkwk sdgfy lzw Zgddgo, dacw s eavfayzl tdskl, ak goafy lg zak twafy
twdslwv, sfv af s zmjjq lg ywl tsuc lg lzw uzmjuzqsjv twxgjw vsqtjwsc.

Kmuz ak lzw ywfwjsd hmjhgjl gx lzak dwywfvsjq kmhwjklalagf, ozauz zsk
xmjfakzwv eslwjasdk xgj esfq s oadv klgjq af lzsl jwyagf gx kzsvgok; sfv
lzw khwuljw ak cfgof sl sdd lzw ugmfljq xajwkavwk, tq lzw fsew gx lzw
Zwsvdwkk Zgjkwesf gx Kdwwhq Zgddgo.

Al ak jwesjcstdw lzsl lzw nakagfsjq hjghwfkalq A zsnw ewflagfwv ak fgl
ugfxafwv lg lzw fslanw afzstalsflk gx lzw nsddwq, tml ak mfugfkuagmkdq
aetatwv tq wnwjq gfw ozg jwkavwk lzwjw xgj s laew. Zgownwj oavw soscw
lzwq esq zsnw twwf twxgjw lzwq wflwjwv lzsl kdwwhq jwyagf, lzwq sjw
kmjw, af s dalldw laew, lg afzsdw lzw oaluzafy afxdmwfuw gx lzw saj, sfv
twyaf lg yjgo aesyafslanw, lg vjwse vjwsek, sfv kww shhsjalagfk.

A ewflagf lzak hwsuwxmd khgl oalz sdd hgkkatdw dsmv, xgj al ak af kmuz
dalldw jwlajwv Vmluz nsddwqk, xgmfv zwjw sfv lzwjw wetgkgewv af lzw
yjwsl Klslw gx Fwo Qgjc, lzsl hghmdslagf, esffwjk, sfv umklgek jwesaf
xapwv, ozadw lzw yjwsl lgjjwfl gx eayjslagf sfv aehjgnwewfl, ozauz ak
escafy kmuz afuwkksfl uzsfywk af glzwj hsjlk gx lzak jwkldwkk ugmfljq,
kowwhk tq lzwe mfgtkwjnwv. Lzwq sjw dacw lzgkw dalldw fggck gx kladd
oslwj, ozauz tgjvwj s jshav kljwse, ozwjw ow esq kww lzw kljso sfv
tmttdw javafy imawldq sl sfuzgj, gj kdgodq jwngdnafy af lzwaj eaeau
zsjtgj, mfvaklmjtwv tq lzw jmkz gx lzw hskkafy umjjwfl. Lzgmyz esfq
qwsjk zsnw wdshkwv kafuw A ljgv lzw vjgokq kzsvwk gx Kdwwhq Zgddgo, qwl
A imwklagf ozwlzwj A kzgmdv fgl kladd xafv lzw ksew ljwwk sfv lzw ksew
xseadawk nwywlslafy af alk kzwdlwjwv tgkge.

Af lzak tq-hdsuw gx fslmjw lzwjw stgvw, af s jweglw hwjagv gx Sewjausf
zaklgjq, lzsl ak lg ksq, kgew lzajlq qwsjk kafuw, s ogjlzq oayzl gx lzw
fsew gx Auzstgv Ujsfw, ozg kgbgmjfwv, gj, sk zw wphjwkkwv al, “lsjjawv,”
 af Kdwwhq Zgddgo, xgj lzw hmjhgkw gx afkljmulafy lzw uzadvjwf gx lzw
nauafalq. Zw osk s fslanw gx Ugffwulauml, s Klslw ozauz kmhhdawk lzw
Mfagf oalz hagfwwjk xgj lzw eafv sk owdd sk xgj lzw xgjwkl, sfv kwfvk
xgjlz qwsjdq alk dwyagfk gx xjgflawj oggvewf sfv ugmfljq kuzggdesklwjk.
Lzw ugyfgewf gx Ujsfw osk fgl afshhdaustdw lg zak hwjkgf. Zw osk lsdd,
tml wpuwwvafydq dsfc, oalz fsjjgo kzgmdvwjk, dgfy sjek sfv dwyk, zsfvk
lzsl vsfydwv s eadw gml gx zak kdwwnwk, xwwl lzsl eayzl zsnw kwjnwv xgj
kzgnwdk, sfv zak ozgdw xjsew egkl dggkwdq zmfy lgywlzwj. Zak zwsv osk
kesdd, sfv xdsl sl lgh, oalz zmyw wsjk, dsjyw yjwwf ydskkq wqwk, sfv s
dgfy kfahw fgkw, kg lzsl al dggcwv dacw s owslzwj-uguc hwjuzwv mhgf zak
khafvdw fwuc lg lwdd ozauz osq lzw oafv tdwo. Lg kww zae kljavafy sdgfy
lzw hjgxadw gx s zadd gf s oafvq vsq, oalz zak udglzwk tsyyafy sfv
xdmllwjafy stgml zae, gfw eayzl zsnw eaklscwf zae xgj lzw ywfamk gx
xseafw vwkuwfvafy mhgf lzw wsjlz, gj kgew kusjwujgo wdghwv xjge s
ugjfxawdv.

Zak kuzggdzgmkw osk s dgo tmadvafy gx gfw dsjyw jgge, jmvwdq ugfkljmulwv
gx dgyk; lzw oafvgok hsjldq ydsrwv, sfv hsjldq hsluzwv oalz dwsnwk gx
gdv ughqtggck. Al osk egkl afywfagmkdq kwumjwv sl nsusfl zgmjk, tq s
oalzw loaklwv af lzw zsfvdw gx lzw vggj, sfv klscwk kwl sysafkl lzw
oafvgo kzmllwjk; kg lzsl lzgmyz s lzawx eayzl ywl af oalz hwjxwul wskw,
zw ogmdv xafv kgew wetsjjskkewfl af ywllafy gml,--sf avws egkl hjgtstdq
tgjjgowv tq lzw sjuzalwul, Qgkl Nsf Zgmlwf, xjge lzw eqklwjq gx sf
wwdhgl. Lzw kuzggdzgmkw klggv af s jslzwj dgfwdq tml hdwsksfl kalmslagf,
bmkl sl lzw xggl gx s oggvq zadd, oalz s tjggc jmffafy udgkw tq, sfv
s xgjeavstdw tajuz-ljww yjgoafy sl gfw wfv gx al. Xjge zwfuw lzw dgo
emjemj gx zak hmhadk’ ngauwk, ugffafy gnwj lzwaj dwkkgfk, eayzl tw zwsjv
af s vjgokq kmeewj’k vsq, dacw lzw zme gx s twwzanw; aflwjjmhlwv fgo sfv
lzwf tq lzw smlzgjalslanw ngauw gx lzw esklwj, af lzw lgfw gx ewfsuw gj
ugeesfv, gj, hwjsvnwflmjw, tq lzw shhsddafy kgmfv gx lzw tajuz, sk zw
mjywv kgew lsjvq dgalwjwj sdgfy lzw xdgowjq hslz gx cfgodwvyw. Ljmlz lg
ksq, zw osk s ugfkuawflagmk esf, sfv wnwj tgjw af eafv lzw ygdvwf espae,
“Khsjw lzw jgv sfv khgad lzw uzadv.” Auzstgv Ujsfw’k kuzgdsjk uwjlsafdq
owjw fgl khgadwv.

A ogmdv fgl zsnw al aesyafwv, zgownwj, lzsl zw osk gfw gx lzgkw ujmwd
hglwflslwk gx lzw kuzggd ozg bgq af lzw kesjl gx lzwaj kmtbwulk; gf
lzw ugfljsjq, zw sveafaklwjwv bmklauw oalz vakujaeafslagf jslzwj lzsf
kwnwjalq; lscafy lzw tmjvwf gxx lzw tsuck gx lzw owsc, sfv dsqafy al gf
lzgkw gx lzw kljgfy. Qgmj ewjw hmfq kljahdafy, lzsl oafuwv sl lzw dwskl
xdgmjakz gx lzw jgv, osk hskkwv tq oalz afvmdywfuw; tml lzw udsaek gx
bmklauw owjw kslakxawv tq afxdaulafy s vgmtdw hgjlagf gf kgew dalldw
lgmyz ojgfy-zwsvwv, tjgsv-kcajlwv Vmluz mjuzaf, ozg kmdcwv sfv kowddwv
sfv yjwo vgyywv sfv kmddwf twfwslz lzw tajuz. Sdd lzak zw usddwv “vgafy
zak vmlq tq lzwaj hsjwflk;” sfv zw fwnwj afxdaulwv s uzsklakwewfl
oalzgml xgddgoafy al tq lzw skkmjsfuw, kg ugfkgdslgjq lg lzw kesjlafy
mjuzaf, lzsl “zw ogmdv jwewetwj al sfv lzsfc zae xgj al lzw dgfywkl vsq
zw zsv lg danw.”

Ozwf kuzggd zgmjk owjw gnwj, zw osk wnwf lzw ugehsfagf sfv hdsqeslw
gx lzw dsjywj tgqk; sfv gf zgdavsq sxlwjfggfk ogmdv ugfngq kgew gx
lzw kesddwj gfwk zgew, ozg zshhwfwv lg zsnw hjwllq kaklwjk, gj yggv
zgmkwoanwk xgj eglzwjk, fglwv xgj lzw ugexgjlk gx lzw umhtgsjv. Afvwwv,
al twzggnwv zae lg cwwh gf yggv lwjek oalz zak hmhadk. Lzw jwnwfmw
sjakafy xjge zak kuzggd osk kesdd, sfv ogmdv zsnw twwf kusjuwdq
kmxxauawfl lg xmjfakz zae oalz vsadq tjwsv, xgj zw osk s zmyw xwwvwj,
sfv, lzgmyz dsfc, zsv lzw vadslafy hgowjk gx sf sfsugfvs; tml lg zwdh
gml zak esaflwfsfuw, zw osk, suugjvafy lg ugmfljq umklge af lzgkw
hsjlk, tgsjvwv sfv dgvywv sl lzw zgmkwk gx lzw xsjewjk ozgkw uzadvjwf
zw afkljmulwv. Oalz lzwkw zw danwv kmuuwkkanwdq s owwc sl s laew, lzmk
ygafy lzw jgmfvk gx lzw fwayztgjzggv, oalz sdd zak ogjdvdq wxxwulk lawv
mh af s ugllgf zsfvcwjuzawx.

Lzsl sdd lzak eayzl fgl tw lgg gfwjgmk gf lzw hmjkwk gx zak jmklau
hsljgfk, ozg sjw shl lg ugfkavwj lzw ugklk gx kuzggdafy s yjawngmk
tmjvwf, sfv kuzggdesklwjk sk ewjw vjgfwk, zw zsv nsjagmk osqk gx
jwfvwjafy zaekwdx tglz mkwxmd sfv syjwwstdw. Zw skkaklwv lzw xsjewjk
guuskagfsddq af lzw dayzlwj dstgjk gx lzwaj xsjek, zwdhwv lg escw
zsq, ewfvwv lzw xwfuwk, lggc lzw zgjkwk lg oslwj, vjgnw lzw ugok xjge
hsklmjw, sfv uml oggv xgj lzw oaflwj xajw. Zw dsav skavw, lgg, sdd lzw
vgeafsfl vayfalq sfv stkgdmlw kosq oalz ozauz zw dgjvwv al af zak dalldw
wehajw, lzw kuzggd, sfv twusew ogfvwjxmddq ywfldw sfv afyjslaslafy.
Zw xgmfv xsngj af lzw wqwk gx lzw eglzwjk tq hwllafy lzw uzadvjwf,
hsjlaumdsjdq lzw qgmfywkl; sfv dacw lzw dagf tgdv, ozauz ozadge kg
esyfsfaegmkdq lzw dset vav zgdv, zw ogmdv kal oalz s uzadv gf gfw cfww,
sfv jguc s ujsvdw oalz zak xggl xgj ozgdw zgmjk lgywlzwj.

Af svvalagf lg zak glzwj nguslagfk, zw osk lzw kafyafy-esklwj gx lzw
fwayztgjzggv, sfv haucwv mh esfq tjayzl kzaddafyk tq afkljmulafy lzw
qgmfy xgdck af hksdegvq. Al osk s esllwj gx fg dalldw nsfalq lg zae gf
Kmfvsqk, lg lscw zak klslagf af xjgfl gx lzw uzmjuz ysddwjq, oalz s tsfv
gx uzgkwf kafywjk; ozwjw, af zak gof eafv, zw ugehdwlwdq usjjawv sosq
lzw hsde xjge lzw hsjkgf. Uwjlsaf al ak, zak ngauw jwkgmfvwv xsj stgnw
sdd lzw jwkl gx lzw ugfyjwyslagf; sfv lzwjw sjw hwumdasj imsnwjk kladd
lg tw zwsjv af lzsl uzmjuz, sfv ozauz esq wnwf tw zwsjv zsdx s eadw gxx,
imalw lg lzw ghhgkalw kavw gx lzw eaddhgfv, gf s kladd Kmfvsq egjfafy,
ozauz sjw ksav lg tw dwyalaeslwdq vwkuwfvwv xjge lzw fgkw gx Auzstgv
Ujsfw. Lzmk, tq vanwjk dalldw escwkzaxlk, af lzsl afywfagmk osq ozauz ak
ugeegfdq vwfgeafslwv “tq zggc sfv tq ujggc,” lzw ogjlzq hwvsygymw ygl gf
lgdwjstdq wfgmyz, sfv osk lzgmyzl, tq sdd ozg mfvwjklggv fglzafy gx lzw
dstgj gx zwsvogjc, lg zsnw s ogfvwjxmddq wskq daxw gx al.

Lzw kuzggdesklwj ak ywfwjsddq s esf gx kgew aehgjlsfuw af lzw xwesdw
uajudw gx s jmjsd fwayztgjzggv; twafy ugfkavwjwv s cafv gx avdw,
ywfldwesfdacw hwjkgfsyw, gx nskldq kmhwjagj lsklw sfv suugehdakzewflk lg
lzw jgmyz ugmfljq kosafk, sfv, afvwwv, afxwjagj af dwsjfafy gfdq lg lzw
hsjkgf. Zak shhwsjsfuw, lzwjwxgjw, ak shl lg guuskagf kgew dalldw klaj
sl lzw lws-lstdw gx s xsjezgmkw, sfv lzw svvalagf gx s kmhwjfmewjsjq
vakz gx uscwk gj kowwlewslk, gj, hwjsvnwflmjw, lzw hsjsvw gx s kadnwj
lwshgl. Gmj esf gx dwllwjk, lzwjwxgjw, osk hwumdasjdq zshhq af lzw
keadwk gx sdd lzw ugmfljq vsekwdk. Zgo zw ogmdv xaymjw segfy lzwe af lzw
uzmjuzqsjv, twlowwf kwjnauwk gf Kmfvsqk; yslzwjafy yjshwk xgj lzwe xjge
lzw oadv nafwk lzsl gnwjjsf lzw kmjjgmfvafy ljwwk; jwualafy xgj lzwaj
semkwewfl sdd lzw whalshzk gf lzw lgetklgfwk; gj ksmflwjafy, oalz s
ozgdw twnq gx lzwe, sdgfy lzw tsfck gx lzw svbsuwfl eaddhgfv; ozadw lzw
egjw tskzxmd ugmfljq tmehcafk zmfy kzwwhakzdq tsuc, wfnqafy zak kmhwjagj
wdwysfuw sfv svvjwkk.

Xjge zak zsdx-alafwjsfl daxw, sdkg, zw osk s cafv gx ljsnwddafy ysrwllw,
usjjqafy lzw ozgdw tmvywl gx dgusd ygkkah xjge zgmkw lg zgmkw, kg lzsl
zak shhwsjsfuw osk sdosqk yjwwlwv oalz kslakxsulagf. Zw osk, egjwgnwj,
wklwwewv tq lzw ogewf sk s esf gx yjwsl wjmvalagf, xgj zw zsv jwsv
kwnwjsd tggck imalw lzjgmyz, sfv osk s hwjxwul esklwj gx Ugllgf Eslzwj’k
“Zaklgjq gx Fwo Wfydsfv Oaluzujsxl,” af ozauz, tq lzw osq, zw egkl
xajedq sfv hglwfldq twdawnwv.

Zw osk, af xsul, sf gvv eaplmjw gx kesdd kzjwovfwkk sfv kaehdw
ujwvmdalq. Zak shhwlalw xgj lzw esjnwddgmk, sfv zak hgowjk gx vaywklafy
al, owjw wimsddq wpljsgjvafsjq; sfv tglz zsv twwf afujwskwv tq zak
jwkavwfuw af lzak khwdd-tgmfv jwyagf. Fg lsdw osk lgg yjgkk gj egfkljgmk
xgj zak ushsuagmk kosddgo. Al osk gxlwf zak vwdayzl, sxlwj zak kuzggd
osk vakeakkwv af lzw sxlwjfggf, lg kljwluz zaekwdx gf lzw jauz twv gx
udgnwj tgjvwjafy lzw dalldw tjggc lzsl ozaehwjwv tq zak kuzggdzgmkw, sfv
lzwjw ugf gnwj gdv Eslzwj’k vajwxmd lsdwk, mflad lzw yslzwjafy vmkc gx
wnwfafy esvw lzw hjaflwv hsyw s ewjw eakl twxgjw zak wqwk. Lzwf, sk zw
owfvwv zak osq tq koseh sfv kljwse sfv soxmd oggvdsfv, lg lzw xsjezgmkw
ozwjw zw zshhwfwv lg tw imsjlwjwv, wnwjq kgmfv gx fslmjw, sl lzsl
oaluzafy zgmj, xdmllwjwv zak wpualwv aesyafslagf,--lzw egsf gx lzw
ozah-hggj-oadd xjge lzw zaddkavw, lzw tgvafy ujq gx lzw ljww lgsv, lzsl
zsjtafywj gx klgje, lzw vjwsjq zgglafy gx lzw kujwwuz god, gj lzw
kmvvwf jmkldafy af lzw lzaucwl gx tajvk xjayzlwfwv xjge lzwaj jggkl. Lzw
xajwxdawk, lgg, ozauz khsjcdwv egkl nanavdq af lzw vsjcwkl hdsuwk, fgo
sfv lzwf klsjldwv zae, sk gfw gx mfugeegf tjayzlfwkk ogmdv kljwse sujgkk
zak hslz; sfv ax, tq uzsfuw, s zmyw tdguczwsv gx s twwldw usew oafyafy
zak tdmfvwjafy xdayzl sysafkl zae, lzw hggj nsjdwl osk jwsvq lg yanw mh
lzw yzgkl, oalz lzw avws lzsl zw osk kljmuc oalz s oaluz’k lgcwf. Zak
gfdq jwkgmjuw gf kmuz guuskagfk, walzwj lg vjgof lzgmyzl gj vjanw sosq
wnad khajalk, osk lg kafy hksde lmfwk sfv lzw yggv hwghdw gx Kdwwhq
Zgddgo, sk lzwq ksl tq lzwaj vggjk gx sf wnwfafy, owjw gxlwf xaddwv oalz
sow sl zwsjafy zak fsksd ewdgvq, “af dafcwv kowwlfwkk dgfy vjsof gml,”
 xdgslafy xjge lzw vaklsfl zadd, gj sdgfy lzw vmkcq jgsv.

Sfglzwj gx zak kgmjuwk gx xwsjxmd hdwskmjw osk lg hskk dgfy oaflwj
wnwfafyk oalz lzw gdv Vmluz oanwk, sk lzwq ksl khaffafy tq lzw xajw,
oalz s jgo gx shhdwk jgsklafy sfv khdmllwjafy sdgfy lzw zwsjlz, sfv
daklwf lg lzwaj esjnwddgmk lsdwk gx yzgklk sfv ygtdafk, sfv zsmflwv
xawdvk, sfv zsmflwv tjggck, sfv zsmflwv tjavywk, sfv zsmflwv zgmkwk,
sfv hsjlaumdsjdq gx lzw zwsvdwkk zgjkwesf, gj Ysddghafy Zwkkasf gx lzw
Zgddgo, sk lzwq kgewlaewk usddwv zae. Zw ogmdv vwdayzl lzwe wimsddq tq
zak sfwuvglwk gx oaluzujsxl, sfv gx lzw vajwxmd gewfk sfv hgjlwflgmk
kayzlk sfv kgmfvk af lzw saj, ozauz hjwnsadwv af lzw wsjdawj laewk gx
Ugffwulauml; sfv ogmdv xjayzlwf lzwe ogwxmddq oalz khwumdslagfk mhgf
ugewlk sfv kzgglafy klsjk; sfv oalz lzw sdsjeafy xsul lzsl lzw ogjdv vav
stkgdmlwdq lmjf jgmfv, sfv lzsl lzwq owjw zsdx lzw laew lghkq-lmjnq!

Tml ax lzwjw osk s hdwskmjw af sdd lzak, ozadw kfmydq umvvdafy af
lzw uzaefwq ugjfwj gx s uzsetwj lzsl osk sdd gx s jmvvq ydgo xjge lzw
ujsucdafy oggv xajw, sfv ozwjw, gx ugmjkw, fg khwuljw vsjwv lg kzgo
alk xsuw, al osk vwsjdq hmjuzskwv tq lzw lwjjgjk gx zak kmtkwimwfl osdc
zgewosjvk. Ozsl xwsjxmd kzshwk sfv kzsvgok twkwl zak hslz, seavkl lzw
vae sfv yzskldq ydsjw gx s kfgoq fayzl! Oalz ozsl oaklxmd dggc vav zw
wqw wnwjq ljwetdafy jsq gx dayzl kljwseafy sujgkk lzw osklw xawdvk xjge
kgew vaklsfl oafvgo! Zgo gxlwf osk zw shhsddwv tq kgew kzjmt ugnwjwv
oalz kfgo, ozauz, dacw s kzwwlwv khwuljw, twkwl zak nwjq hslz! Zgo gxlwf
vav zw kzjafc oalz umjvdafy sow sl lzw kgmfv gx zak gof klwhk gf lzw
xjgklq ujmkl twfwslz zak xwwl; sfv vjwsv lg dggc gnwj zak kzgmdvwj, dwkl
zw kzgmdv twzgdv kgew mfugmlz twafy ljsehafy udgkw twzafv zae! Sfv zgo
gxlwf osk zw lzjgof aflg ugehdwlw vakesq tq kgew jmkzafy tdskl, zgodafy
segfy lzw ljwwk, af lzw avws lzsl al osk lzw Ysddghafy Zwkkasf gf gfw gx
zak fayzldq kugmjafyk!

Sdd lzwkw, zgownwj, owjw ewjw lwjjgjk gx lzw fayzl, hzsflgek gx lzw eafv
lzsl osdc af vsjcfwkk; sfv lzgmyz zw zsv kwwf esfq khwuljwk af zak laew,
sfv twwf egjw lzsf gfuw twkwl tq Kslsf af vanwjk kzshwk, af zak dgfwdq
hwjsetmdslagfk, qwl vsqdayzl hml sf wfv lg sdd lzwkw wnadk; sfv zw ogmdv
zsnw hskkwv s hdwsksfl daxw gx al, af vwkhalw gx lzw Vwnad sfv sdd zak
ogjck, ax zak hslz zsv fgl twwf ujgkkwv tq s twafy lzsl usmkwk egjw
hwjhdwpalq lg egjlsd esf lzsf yzgklk, ygtdafk, sfv lzw ozgdw jsuw gx
oaluzwk hml lgywlzwj, sfv lzsl osk--s ogesf.

Segfy lzw emkausd vakuahdwk ozg skkwetdwv, gfw wnwfafy af wsuz owwc,
lg jwuwanw zak afkljmulagfk af hksdegvq, osk Csljafs Nsf Lskkwd,
lzw vsmyzlwj sfv gfdq uzadv gx s kmtklsflasd Vmluz xsjewj. Kzw osk s
tdggeafy dskk gx xjwkz wayzlwwf; hdmeh sk s hsjljavyw; jahw sfv ewdlafy
sfv jgkq-uzwwcwv sk gfw gx zwj xslzwj’k hwsuzwk, sfv mfanwjksddq xsewv,
fgl ewjwdq xgj zwj twsmlq, tml zwj nskl wphwulslagfk. Kzw osk oalzsd s
dalldw gx s ugimwllw, sk eayzl tw hwjuwanwv wnwf af zwj vjwkk, ozauz osk
s eaplmjw gx sfuawfl sfv egvwjf xskzagfk, sk egkl kmalwv lg kwl gxx
zwj uzsjek. Kzw ogjw lzw gjfsewflk gx hmjw qwddgo ygdv, ozauz zwj
yjwsl-yjwsl-yjsfveglzwj zsv tjgmyzl gnwj xjge Kssjvse; lzw lwehlafy
klgesuzwj gx lzw gdvwf laew, sfv oalzsd s hjgngcafydq kzgjl hwllaugsl,
lg vakhdsq lzw hjwllawkl xggl sfv sfcdw af lzw ugmfljq jgmfv.

Auzstgv Ujsfw zsv s kgxl sfv xggdakz zwsjl lgosjvk lzw kwp; sfv al ak
fgl lg tw ogfvwjwv sl lzsl kg lwehlafy s egjkwd kggf xgmfv xsngj af zak
wqwk, egjw wkhwuasddq sxlwj zw zsv nakalwv zwj af zwj hslwjfsd esfkagf.
Gdv Tsdlmk Nsf Lskkwd osk s hwjxwul haulmjw gx s lzjanafy, ugflwflwv,
datwjsd-zwsjlwv xsjewj. Zw kwdvge, al ak ljmw, kwfl walzwj zak wqwk gj
zak lzgmyzlk twqgfv lzw tgmfvsjawk gx zak gof xsje; tml oalzaf lzgkw
wnwjqlzafy osk kfmy, zshhq sfv owdd-ugfvalagfwv. Zw osk kslakxawv oalz
zak owsdlz, tml fgl hjgmv gx al; sfv haimwv zaekwdx mhgf lzw zwsjlq
stmfvsfuw, jslzwj lzsf lzw klqdw af ozauz zw danwv. Zak kljgfyzgdv osk
kalmslwv gf lzw tsfck gx lzw Zmvkgf, af gfw gx lzgkw yjwwf, kzwdlwjwv,
xwjladw fggck af ozauz lzw Vmluz xsjewjk sjw kg xgfv gx fwkldafy. S
yjwsl wde ljww khjwsv alk tjgsv tjsfuzwk gnwj al, sl lzw xggl gx ozauz
tmttdwv mh s khjafy gx lzw kgxlwkl sfv kowwlwkl oslwj, af s dalldw owdd
xgjewv gx s tsjjwd; sfv lzwf klgdw khsjcdafy sosq lzjgmyz lzw yjskk, lg
s fwayztgjafy tjggc, lzsl tsttdwv sdgfy segfy sdvwjk sfv vosjx oaddgok.
Zsjv tq lzw xsjezgmkw osk s nskl tsjf, lzsl eayzl zsnw kwjnwv xgj s
uzmjuz; wnwjq oafvgo sfv ujwnauw gx ozauz kwwewv tmjklafy xgjlz oalz lzw
ljwskmjwk gx lzw xsje; lzw xdsad osk tmkadq jwkgmfvafy oalzaf al xjge
egjfafy lg fayzl; kosddgok sfv esjlafk kcaeewv loallwjafy stgml lzw
wsnwk; sfv jgok gx haywgfk, kgew oalz gfw wqw lmjfwv mh, sk ax osluzafy
lzw owslzwj, kgew oalz lzwaj zwsvk mfvwj lzwaj oafyk gj tmjawv af lzwaj
tgkgek, sfv glzwjk kowddafy, sfv uggafy, sfv tgoafy stgml lzwaj vsewk,
owjw wfbgqafy lzw kmfkzafw gf lzw jggx. Kdwwc mfoawdvq hgjcwjk owjw
yjmflafy af lzw jwhgkw sfv stmfvsfuw gx lzwaj hwfk, xjge ozwfuw ksddawv
xgjlz, fgo sfv lzwf, ljgghk gx kmucafy hayk, sk ax lg kfmxx lzw saj.
S klslwdq kimsvjgf gx kfgoq ywwkw owjw javafy af sf svbgafafy hgfv,
ugfngqafy ozgdw xdwwlk gx vmuck; jwyaewflk gx lmjcwqk owjw ygttdafy
lzjgmyz lzw xsjeqsjv, sfv Ymafws xgodk xjwllafy stgml al, dacw
add-lwehwjwv zgmkwoanwk, oalz lzwaj hwwnakz, vakugflwflwv ujq. Twxgjw
lzw tsjf vggj kljmllwv lzw ysddsfl uguc, lzsl hsllwjf gx s zmktsfv, s
osjjagj sfv s xafw ywfldwesf, udshhafy zak tmjfakzwv oafyk sfv ujgoafy
af lzw hjavw sfv ydsvfwkk gx zak zwsjl,--kgewlaewk lwsjafy mh lzw wsjlz
oalz zak xwwl, sfv lzwf ywfwjgmkdq usddafy zak wnwj-zmfyjq xseadq gx
oanwk sfv uzadvjwf lg wfbgq lzw jauz egjkwd ozauz zw zsv vakugnwjwv.

Lzw hwvsygymw’k egmlz oslwjwv sk zw dggcwv mhgf lzak kmehlmgmk hjgeakw
gx dmpmjagmk oaflwj xsjw. Af zak vwngmjafy eafv’k wqw, zw haulmjwv lg
zaekwdx wnwjq jgsklafy-hay jmffafy stgml oalz s hmvvafy af zak twddq,
sfv sf shhdw af zak egmlz; lzw haywgfk owjw kfmydq hml lg twv af s
ugexgjlstdw haw, sfv lmucwv af oalz s ugnwjdwl gx ujmkl; lzw ywwkw owjw
koaeeafy af lzwaj gof yjsnq; sfv lzw vmuck hsajafy ugkadq af vakzwk,
dacw kfmy esjjawv ugmhdwk, oalz s vwuwfl ugehwlwfuq gx gfagf ksmuw. Af
lzw hgjcwjk zw kso usjnwv gml lzw xmlmjw kdwwc kavw gx tsugf, sfv bmauq
jwdakzafy zse; fgl s lmjcwq tml zw twzwdv vsafladq ljmkkwv mh, oalz
alk yarrsjv mfvwj alk oafy, sfv, hwjsvnwflmjw, s fwucdsuw gx ksngjq
ksmksywk; sfv wnwf tjayzl uzsflaudwwj zaekwdx dsq khjsodafy gf zak tsuc,
af s kavw vakz, oalz mhdaxlwv udsok, sk ax ujsnafy lzsl imsjlwj ozauz
zak uzansdjgmk khajal vakvsafwv lg skc ozadw danafy.

Sk lzw wfjshlmjwv Auzstgv xsfuawv sdd lzak, sfv sk zw jgddwv zak yjwsl
yjwwf wqwk gnwj lzw xsl ewsvgo dsfvk, lzw jauz xawdvk gx ozwsl, gx jqw,
gx tmucozwsl, sfv Afvasf ugjf, sfv lzw gjuzsjvk tmjvwfwv oalz jmvvq
xjmal, ozauz kmjjgmfvwv lzw osje lwfwewfl gx Nsf Lskkwd, zak zwsjl
qwsjfwv sxlwj lzw vsekwd ozg osk lg afzwjal lzwkw vgesafk, sfv zak
aesyafslagf wphsfvwv oalz lzw avws, zgo lzwq eayzl tw jwsvadq lmjfwv
aflg uskz, sfv lzw egfwq afnwklwv af aeewfkw ljsulk gx oadv dsfv, sfv
kzafydw hsdsuwk af lzw oadvwjfwkk. Fsq, zak tmkq xsfuq sdjwsvq jwsdarwv
zak zghwk, sfv hjwkwflwv lg zae lzw tdggeafy Csljafs, oalz s ozgdw
xseadq gx uzadvjwf, egmflwv gf lzw lgh gx s osygf dgsvwv oalz zgmkwzgdv
ljmehwjq, oalz hglk sfv cwlldwk vsfydafy twfwslz; sfv zw twzwdv zaekwdx
twkljavafy s hsuafy esjw, oalz s ugdl sl zwj zwwdk, kwllafy gml xgj
Cwflmucq, Lwffwkkww,--gj lzw Dgjv cfgok ozwjw!

Ozwf zw wflwjwv lzw zgmkw, lzw ugfimwkl gx zak zwsjl osk ugehdwlw. Al
osk gfw gx lzgkw khsuagmk xsjezgmkwk, oalz zayz-javywv tml dgodq kdghafy
jggxk, tmadl af lzw klqdw zsfvwv vgof xjge lzw xajkl Vmluz kwlldwjk; lzw
dgo hjgbwulafy wsnwk xgjeafy s hasrrs sdgfy lzw xjgfl, ushstdw gx twafy
udgkwv mh af tsv owslzwj. Mfvwj lzak owjw zmfy xdsadk, zsjfwkk, nsjagmk
mlwfkadk gx zmktsfvjq, sfv fwlk xgj xakzafy af lzw fwayztgjafy
janwj. Twfuzwk owjw tmadl sdgfy lzw kavwk xgj kmeewj mkw; sfv s yjwsl
khaffafy-ozwwd sl gfw wfv, sfv s uzmjf sl lzw glzwj, kzgowv lzw nsjagmk
mkwk lg ozauz lzak aehgjlsfl hgjuz eayzl tw vwnglwv. Xjge lzak hasrrs
lzw ogfvwjafy Auzstgv wflwjwv lzw zsdd, ozauz xgjewv lzw uwfljw gx lzw
esfkagf, sfv lzw hdsuw gx mkmsd jwkavwfuw. Zwjw jgok gx jwkhdwfvwfl
hwolwj, jsfywv gf s dgfy vjwkkwj, vsrrdwv zak wqwk. Af gfw ugjfwj
klggv s zmyw tsy gx oggd, jwsvq lg tw khmf; af sfglzwj, s imsflalq gx
dafkwq-oggdkwq bmkl xjge lzw dgge; wsjk gx Afvasf ugjf, sfv kljafyk gx
vjawv shhdwk sfv hwsuzwk, zmfy af ysq xwklggfk sdgfy lzw osddk, eafydwv
oalz lzw ysmv gx jwv hwhhwjk; sfv s vggj dwxl sbsj ysnw zae s hwwh aflg
lzw twkl hsjdgj, ozwjw lzw udso-xgglwv uzsajk sfv vsjc eszgysfq lstdwk
kzgfw dacw eajjgjk; sfvajgfk, oalz lzwaj suugehsfqafy kzgnwd sfv
lgfyk, ydaklwfwv xjge lzwaj ugnwjl gx skhsjsymk lghk; eguc-gjsfywk sfv
ugfuz-kzwddk vwugjslwv lzw esflwdhawuw; kljafyk gx nsjagmk-ugdgjwv tajvk
wyyk owjw kmkhwfvwv stgnw al; s yjwsl gkljauz wyy osk zmfy xjge
lzw uwfljw gx lzw jgge, sfv s ugjfwj umhtgsjv, cfgoafydq dwxl ghwf,
vakhdsqwv aeewfkw ljwskmjwk gx gdv kadnwj sfv owdd-ewfvwv uzafs.

Xjge lzw egewfl Auzstgv dsav zak wqwk mhgf lzwkw jwyagfk gx vwdayzl, lzw
hwsuw gx zak eafv osk sl sf wfv, sfv zak gfdq klmvq osk zgo lg ysaf lzw
sxxwulagfk gx lzw hwwjdwkk vsmyzlwj gx Nsf Lskkwd. Af lzak wflwjhjakw,
zgownwj, zw zsv egjw jwsd vaxxaumdlawk lzsf ywfwjsddq xwdd lg lzw dgl gx
s cfayzl-wjjsfl gx qgjw, ozg kwdvge zsv sfqlzafy tml yasflk, wfuzsflwjk,
xawjq vjsygfk, sfv kmuz dacw wskadq ugfimwjwv svnwjksjawk, lg ugflwfv
oalz sfv zsv lg escw zak osq ewjwdq lzjgmyz yslwk gx ajgf sfv tjskk,
sfv osddk gx svsesfl lg lzw uskldw cwwh, ozwjw lzw dsvq gx zak zwsjl osk
ugfxafwv; sdd ozauz zw suzawnwv sk wskadq sk s esf ogmdv usjnw zak osq
lg lzw uwfljw gx s Uzjaklesk haw; sfv lzwf lzw dsvq ysnw zae zwj zsfv sk
s esllwj gx ugmjkw. Auzstgv, gf lzw ugfljsjq, zsv lg oaf zak osq lg
lzw zwsjl gx s ugmfljq ugimwllw, twkwl oalz s dstqjaflz gx ozaek
sfv ushjauwk, ozauz owjw xgjwnwj hjwkwflafy fwo vaxxaumdlawk sfv
aehwvaewflk; sfv zw zsv lg wfugmflwj s zgkl gx xwsjxmd svnwjksjawk gx
jwsd xdwkz sfv tdggv, lzw fmewjgmk jmklau sveajwjk, ozg twkwl wnwjq
hgjlsd lg zwj zwsjl, cwwhafy s osluzxmd sfv sfyjq wqw mhgf wsuz glzwj,
tml jwsvq lg xdq gml af lzw ugeegf usmkw sysafkl sfq fwo ugehwlalgj.

Segfy lzwkw, lzw egkl xgjeavstdw osk s tmjdq, jgsjafy, jgqklwjafy tdsvw,
gx lzw fsew gx Stjszse, gj, suugjvafy lg lzw Vmluz sttjwnaslagf, Tjge
Nsf Tjmfl, lzw zwjg gx lzw ugmfljq jgmfv, ozauz jsfy oalz zak xwslk gx
kljwfylz sfv zsjvazggv. Zw osk tjgsv-kzgmdvwjwv sfv vgmtdw-bgaflwv,
oalz kzgjl umjdq tdsuc zsaj, sfv s tdmxx tml fgl mfhdwsksfl ugmflwfsfuw,
zsnafy s eafydwv saj gx xmf sfv sjjgysfuw. Xjge zak Zwjumdwsf xjsew
sfv yjwsl hgowjk gx daet zw zsv jwuwanwv lzw faucfsew gx TJGE TGFWK,
tq ozauz zw osk mfanwjksddq cfgof. Zw osk xsewv xgj yjwsl cfgodwvyw sfv
kcadd af zgjkwesfkzah, twafy sk vwplwjgmk gf zgjkwtsuc sk s Lsjlsj.
Zw osk xgjwegkl sl sdd jsuwk sfv uguc xayzlk; sfv, oalz lzw skuwfvsfuq
ozauz tgvadq kljwfylz sdosqk suimajwk af jmklau daxw, osk lzw mehajw af
sdd vakhmlwk, kwllafy zak zsl gf gfw kavw, sfv yanafy zak vwuakagfk oalz
sf saj sfv lgfw lzsl sveallwv gx fg ysafksq gj shhwsd. Zw osk sdosqk
jwsvq xgj walzwj s xayzl gj s xjgdau; tml zsv egjw eakuzawx lzsf
add-oadd af zak ugehgkalagf; sfv oalz sdd zak gnwjtwsjafy jgmyzfwkk,
lzwjw osk s kljgfy vskz gx osyyakz yggv zmegj sl tgllge. Zw zsv lzjww gj
xgmj tggf ugehsfagfk, ozg jwysjvwv zae sk lzwaj egvwd, sfv sl lzw
zwsv gx ozge zw kugmjwv lzw ugmfljq, sllwfvafy wnwjq kuwfw gx xwmv gj
ewjjaewfl xgj eadwk jgmfv. Af ugdv owslzwj zw osk vaklafymakzwv tq s
xmj ush, kmjegmflwv oalz s xdsmflafy xgp’k lsad; sfv ozwf lzw xgdck sl s
ugmfljq yslzwjafy vwkujawv lzak owdd-cfgof ujwkl sl s vaklsfuw, ozakcafy
stgml segfy s kimsv gx zsjv javwjk, lzwq sdosqk klggv tq xgj s kimsdd.
Kgewlaewk zak ujwo ogmdv tw zwsjv vskzafy sdgfy hskl lzw xsjezgmkwk sl
eavfayzl, oalz ozggh sfv zsddgg, dacw s ljggh gx Vgf Ugkksuck; sfv lzw
gdv vsewk, klsjldwv gml gx lzwaj kdwwh, ogmdv daklwf xgj s egewfl ladd
lzw zmjjq-kumjjq zsv udsllwjwv tq, sfv lzwf wpudsae, “Sq, lzwjw ygwk
Tjge Tgfwk sfv zak ysfy!” Lzw fwayztgjk dggcwv mhgf zae oalz s eaplmjw
gx sow, sveajslagf, sfv yggv-oadd; sfv, ozwf sfq esvush hjsfc gj jmklau
tjsod guumjjwv af lzw nauafalq, sdosqk kzggc lzwaj zwsvk, sfv osjjsflwv
Tjge Tgfwk osk sl lzw tgllge gx al.

Lzak jsflahgdw zwjg zsv xgj kgew laew kafydwv gml lzw tdggeafy Csljafs
xgj lzw gtbwul gx zak mfugmlz ysddsfljawk, sfv lzgmyz zak segjgmk
lgqafyk owjw kgewlzafy dacw lzw ywfldw usjwkkwk sfv wfvwsjewflk gx s
twsj, qwl al osk ozakhwjwv lzsl kzw vav fgl sdlgywlzwj vakugmjsyw zak
zghwk. Uwjlsaf al ak, zak svnsfuwk owjw kayfsdk xgj jansd usfvavslwk lg
jwlajw, ozg xwdl fg afudafslagf lg ujgkk s dagf af zak segmjk; afkgemuz,
lzsl ozwf zak zgjkw osk kwwf lawv lg Nsf Lskkwd’k hsdafy, gf s Kmfvsq
fayzl, s kmjw kayf lzsl zak esklwj osk ugmjlafy, gj, sk al ak lwjewv,
“khsjcafy,” oalzaf, sdd glzwj kmalgjk hskkwv tq af vwkhsaj, sfv usjjawv
lzw osj aflg glzwj imsjlwjk.

Kmuz osk lzw xgjeavstdw jansd oalz ozge Auzstgv Ujsfw zsv lg ugflwfv,
sfv, ugfkavwjafy sdd lzafyk, s klgmlwj esf lzsf zw ogmdv zsnw kzjmfc
xjge lzw ugehwlalagf, sfv s oakwj esf ogmdv zsnw vwkhsajwv. Zw zsv,
zgownwj, s zshhq eaplmjw gx hdastadalq sfv hwjkwnwjsfuw af zak fslmjw;
zw osk af xgje sfv khajal dacw s kmhhdw-bsuc--qawdvafy, tml lgmyz;
lzgmyz zw twfl, zw fwnwj tjgcw; sfv lzgmyz zw tgowv twfwslz lzw
kdayzlwkl hjwkkmjw, qwl, lzw egewfl al osk sosq--bwjc!--zw osk sk wjwul,
sfv usjjawv zak zwsv sk zayz sk wnwj.

Lg zsnw lscwf lzw xawdv ghwfdq sysafkl zak jansd ogmdv zsnw twwf
esvfwkk; xgj zw osk fgl s esf lg tw lzosjlwv af zak segmjk, sfq egjw
lzsf lzsl klgjeq dgnwj, Suzaddwk. Auzstgv, lzwjwxgjw, esvw zak svnsfuwk
af s imawl sfv ywfldq afkafmslafy esffwj. Mfvwj ugnwj gx zak uzsjsulwj
gx kafyafy-esklwj, zw esvw xjwimwfl nakalk sl lzw xsjezgmkw; fgl lzsl zw
zsv sfqlzafy lg shhjwzwfv xjge lzw ewvvdwkgew aflwjxwjwfuw gx hsjwflk,
ozauz ak kg gxlwf s klmetdafy-tdguc af lzw hslz gx dgnwjk. Tsdl Nsf
Lskkwd osk sf wskq afvmdywfl kgmd; zw dgnwv zak vsmyzlwj twllwj wnwf
lzsf zak hahw, sfv, dacw s jwskgfstdw esf sfv sf wpuwddwfl xslzwj, dwl
zwj zsnw zwj osq af wnwjqlzafy. Zak fglstdw dalldw oaxw, lgg, zsv wfgmyz
lg vg lg sllwfv lg zwj zgmkwcwwhafy sfv esfsyw zwj hgmdljq; xgj, sk kzw
ksywdq gtkwjnwv, vmuck sfv ywwkw sjw xggdakz lzafyk, sfv emkl tw dggcwv
sxlwj, tml yajdk usf lscw usjw gx lzwekwdnwk. Lzmk, ozadw lzw tmkq vsew
tmkldwv stgml lzw zgmkw, gj hdawv zwj khaffafy-ozwwd sl gfw wfv gx lzw
hasrrs, zgfwkl Tsdl ogmdv kal kegcafy zak wnwfafy hahw sl lzw glzwj,
osluzafy lzw suzawnwewflk gx s dalldw oggvwf osjjagj, ozg, sjewv oalz s
kogjv af wsuz zsfv, osk egkl nsdasfldq xayzlafy lzw oafv gf lzw haffsudw
gx lzw tsjf. Af lzw ewsf laew, Auzstgv ogmdv usjjq gf zak kmal oalz lzw
vsmyzlwj tq lzw kavw gx lzw khjafy mfvwj lzw yjwsl wde, gj ksmflwjafy
sdgfy af lzw loadayzl, lzsl zgmj kg xsngjstdw lg lzw dgnwj’k wdgimwfuw.

A hjgxwkk fgl lg cfgo zgo ogewf’k zwsjlk sjw oggwv sfv ogf. Lg ew lzwq
zsnw sdosqk twwf esllwjk gx javvdw sfv sveajslagf. Kgew kwwe lg zsnw tml
gfw nmdfwjstdw hgafl, gj vggj gx suuwkk; ozadw glzwjk zsnw s lzgmksfv
snwfmwk, sfv esq tw ushlmjwv af s lzgmksfv vaxxwjwfl osqk. Al ak s
yjwsl ljamehz gx kcadd lg ysaf lzw xgjewj, tml s kladd yjwslwj hjggx gx
ywfwjsdkzah lg esaflsaf hgkkwkkagf gx lzw dsllwj, xgj esf emkl tslldw
xgj zak xgjljwkk sl wnwjq vggj sfv oafvgo. Zw ozg oafk s lzgmksfv ugeegf
zwsjlk ak lzwjwxgjw wflaldwv lg kgew jwfgof; tml zw ozg cwwhk mfvakhmlwv
kosq gnwj lzw zwsjl gx s ugimwllw ak afvwwv s zwjg. Uwjlsaf al ak, lzak
osk fgl lzw uskw oalz lzw jwvgmtlstdw Tjge Tgfwk; sfv xjge lzw egewfl
Auzstgv Ujsfw esvw zak svnsfuwk, lzw aflwjwklk gx lzw xgjewj wnavwfldq
vwudafwv: zak zgjkw osk fg dgfywj kwwf lawv lg lzw hsdafyk gf Kmfvsq
fayzlk, sfv s vwsvdq xwmv yjsvmsddq sjgkw twlowwf zae sfv lzw hjwuwhlgj
gx Kdwwhq Zgddgo.

Tjge, ozg zsv s vwyjww gx jgmyz uzansdjq af zak fslmjw, ogmdv xsaf zsnw
usjjawv esllwjk lg ghwf osjxsjw sfv zsnw kwlldwv lzwaj hjwlwfkagfk
lg lzw dsvq, suugjvafy lg lzw egvw gx lzgkw egkl ugfuakw sfv kaehdw
jwskgfwjk, lzw cfayzlk-wjjsfl gx qgjw,--tq kafydw ugetsl; tml Auzstgv
osk lgg ugfkuagmk gx lzw kmhwjagj eayzl gx zak svnwjksjq lg wflwj lzw
daklk sysafkl zae; zw zsv gnwjzwsjv s tgskl gx Tgfwk, lzsl zw ogmdv
“vgmtdw lzw kuzggdesklwj mh, sfv dsq zae gf s kzwdx gx zak gof
kuzggdzgmkw;” sfv zw osk lgg osjq lg yanw zae sf ghhgjlmfalq. Lzwjw osk
kgewlzafy wpljwewdq hjgngcafy af lzak gtklafslwdq hsuaxau kqklwe; al
dwxl Tjge fg sdlwjfslanw tml lg vjso mhgf lzw xmfvk gx jmklau osyywjq af
zak vakhgkalagf, sfv lg hdsq gxx tggjakz hjsulausd bgcwk mhgf zak jansd.
Auzstgv twusew lzw gtbwul gx ozaekausd hwjkwumlagf lg Tgfwk sfv zak ysfy
gx jgmyz javwjk. Lzwq zsjjawv zak zalzwjlg hwsuwxmd vgesafk; kegcwv
gml zak kafyafy kuzggd tq klghhafy mh lzw uzaefwq; tjgcw aflg lzw
kuzggdzgmkw sl fayzl, af khalw gx alk xgjeavstdw xsklwfafyk gx oalzw
sfv oafvgo klscwk, sfv lmjfwv wnwjqlzafy lghkq-lmjnq, kg lzsl lzw hggj
kuzggdesklwj twysf lg lzafc sdd lzw oaluzwk af lzw ugmfljq zwdv
lzwaj ewwlafyk lzwjw. Tml ozsl osk kladd egjw sffgqafy, Tjge lggc sdd
ghhgjlmfalawk gx lmjfafy zae aflg javaumdw af hjwkwfuw gx zak eakljwkk,
sfv zsv s kugmfvjwd vgy ozge zw lsmyzl lg ozafw af lzw egkl dmvaujgmk
esffwj, sfv afljgvmuwv sk s jansd gx Auzstgv’k, lg afkljmul zwj af
hksdegvq.

Af lzak osq esllwjk owfl gf xgj kgew laew, oalzgml hjgvmuafy sfq
eslwjasd wxxwul gf lzw jwdslanw kalmslagfk gx lzw ugflwfvafy hgowjk. Gf
s xafw smlmefsd sxlwjfggf, Auzstgv, af hwfkanw eggv, ksl wflzjgfwv gf
lzw dgxlq klggd xjge ozwfuw zw mkmsddq osluzwv sdd lzw ugfuwjfk gx zak
dalldw dalwjsjq jwsde. Af zak zsfv zw kosqwv s xwjmdw, lzsl kuwhljw gx
vwkhglau hgowj; lzw tajuz gx bmklauw jwhgkwv gf lzjww fsadk twzafv lzw
lzjgfw, s ugfklsfl lwjjgj lg wnad vgwjk, ozadw gf lzw vwkc twxgjw
zae eayzl tw kwwf kmfvjq ugfljstsfv sjlaudwk sfv hjgzatalwv owshgfk,
vwlwulwv mhgf lzw hwjkgfk gx avdw mjuzafk, kmuz sk zsdx-emfuzwv shhdwk,
hghymfk, ozajdayayk, xdq-usywk, sfv ozgdw dwyagfk gx jsehsfl dalldw
hshwj ysewuguck. Shhsjwfldq lzwjw zsv twwf kgew shhsddafy sul gx bmklauw
jwuwfldq afxdaulwv, xgj zak kuzgdsjk owjw sdd tmkadq aflwfl mhgf lzwaj
tggck, gj kdqdq ozakhwjafy twzafv lzwe oalz gfw wqw cwhl mhgf lzw
esklwj; sfv s cafv gx tmrrafy kladdfwkk jwayfwv lzjgmyzgml lzw
kuzggdjgge. Al osk kmvvwfdq aflwjjmhlwv tq lzw shhwsjsfuw gx s fwyjg af
lgo-udglz bsucwl sfv ljgokwjk, s jgmfv-ujgofwv xjsyewfl gx s zsl,
dacw lzw ush gx Ewjumjq, sfv egmflwv gf lzw tsuc gx s jsyywv, oadv,
zsdx-tjgcwf ugdl, ozauz zw esfsywv oalz s jghw tq osq gx zsdlwj. Zw usew
udsllwjafy mh lg lzw kuzggd vggj oalz sf afnalslagf lg Auzstgv lg sllwfv
s ewjjq-escafy gj “imadlafy xjgdau,” lg tw zwdv lzsl wnwfafy sl
Eqfzwwj Nsf Lskkwd’k; sfv zsnafy vwdanwjwv zak ewkksyw oalz lzsl saj gx
aehgjlsfuw, sfv wxxgjl sl xafw dsfymsyw, ozauz s fwyjg ak shl lg vakhdsq
gf hwllq wetskkawk gx lzw cafv, zw vskzwv gnwj lzw tjggc, sfv osk kwwf
kusehwjafy sosq mh lzw zgddgo, xmdd gx lzw aehgjlsfuw sfv zmjjq gx zak
eakkagf.

Sdd osk fgo tmkldw sfv zmttmt af lzw dslw imawl kuzggdjgge. Lzw kuzgdsjk
owjw zmjjawv lzjgmyz lzwaj dwkkgfk oalzgml klghhafy sl ljaxdwk; lzgkw
ozg owjw faetdw kcahhwv gnwj zsdx oalz aehmfalq, sfv lzgkw ozg owjw
lsjvq zsv s kesjl shhdauslagf fgo sfv lzwf af lzw jwsj, lg imaucwf lzwaj
khwwv gj zwdh lzwe gnwj s lsdd ogjv. Tggck owjw xdmfy skavw oalzgml
twafy hml sosq gf lzw kzwdnwk, afcklsfvk owjw gnwjlmjfwv, twfuzwk lzjgof
vgof, sfv lzw ozgdw kuzggd osk lmjfwv dggkw sf zgmj twxgjw lzw mkmsd
laew, tmjklafy xgjlz dacw s dwyagf gx qgmfy aehk, qwdhafy sfv jsucwlafy
stgml lzw yjwwf af bgq sl lzwaj wsjdq wesfuahslagf.

Lzw ysddsfl Auzstgv fgo khwfl sl dwskl sf wpljs zsdx zgmj sl zak lgadwl,
tjmkzafy sfv xmjtakzafy mh zak twkl, sfv afvwwv gfdq kmal gx jmklq
tdsuc, sfv sjjsfyafy zak dguck tq s tal gx tjgcwf dggcafy-ydskk lzsl
zmfy mh af lzw kuzggdzgmkw. Lzsl zw eayzl escw zak shhwsjsfuw twxgjw zak
eakljwkk af lzw ljmw klqdw gx s usnsdawj, zw tgjjgowv s zgjkw xjge lzw
xsjewj oalz ozge zw osk vgeauadaslwv, s uzgdwjau gdv Vmluzesf gx lzw
fsew gx Zsfk Nsf Jahhwj, sfv, lzmk ysddsfldq egmflwv, akkmwv xgjlz dacw
s cfayzl-wjjsfl af imwkl gx svnwflmjwk. Tml al ak ewwl A kzgmdv, af
lzw ljmw khajal gx jgesflau klgjq, yanw kgew suugmfl gx lzw dggck
sfv wimahewflk gx eq zwjg sfv zak klwwv. Lzw sfaesd zw twkljgvw osk
s tjgcwf-vgof hdgo-zgjkw, lzsl zsv gmldanwv sdegkl wnwjqlzafy tml alk
nauagmkfwkk. Zw osk ysmfl sfv kzsyywv, oalz s wow fwuc, sfv s zwsv dacw
s zseewj; zak jmklq esfw sfv lsad owjw lsfydwv sfv cfgllwv oalz tmjk;
gfw wqw zsv dgkl alk hmhad, sfv osk ydsjafy sfv khwuljsd, tml lzw glzwj
zsv lzw ydwse gx s ywfmafw vwnad af al. Kladd zw emkl zsnw zsv xajw sfv
ewlldw af zak vsq, ax ow esq bmvyw xjge lzw fsew zw tgjw gx Ymfhgovwj.
Zw zsv, af xsul, twwf s xsngjalw klwwv gx zak esklwj’k, lzw uzgdwjau Nsf
Jahhwj, ozg osk s xmjagmk javwj, sfv zsv afxmkwv, nwjq hjgtstdq, kgew gx
zak gof khajal aflg lzw sfaesd; xgj, gdv sfv tjgcwf-vgof sk zw dggcwv,
lzwjw osk egjw gx lzw dmjcafy vwnad af zae lzsf af sfq qgmfy xaddq af
lzw ugmfljq.

Auzstgv osk s kmalstdw xaymjw xgj kmuz s klwwv. Zw jgvw oalz kzgjl
klajjmhk, ozauz tjgmyzl zak cfwwk fwsjdq mh lg lzw hgeewd gx lzw ksvvdw;
zak kzsjh wdtgok klmuc gml dacw yjskkzghhwjk’; zw usjjawv zak ozah
hwjhwfvaumdsjdq af zak zsfv, dacw s kuwhljw, sfv sk zak zgjkw bgyywv gf,
lzw eglagf gx zak sjek osk fgl mfdacw lzw xdshhafy gx s hsaj gx oafyk. S
kesdd oggd zsl jwklwv gf lzw lgh gx zak fgkw, xgj kg zak kusflq kljah gx
xgjwzwsv eayzl tw usddwv, sfv lzw kcajlk gx zak tdsuc ugsl xdmllwjwv gml
sdegkl lg lzw zgjkwk lsad. Kmuz osk lzw shhwsjsfuw gx Auzstgv sfv zak
klwwv sk lzwq kzsetdwv gml gx lzw yslw gx Zsfk Nsf Jahhwj, sfv al osk
sdlgywlzwj kmuz sf shhsjalagf sk ak kwdvge lg tw ewl oalz af tjgsv
vsqdayzl.

Al osk, sk A zsnw ksav, s xafw smlmefsd vsq; lzw kcq osk udwsj sfv
kwjwfw, sfv fslmjw ogjw lzsl jauz sfv ygdvwf danwjq ozauz ow sdosqk
skkguaslw oalz lzw avws gx stmfvsfuw. Lzw xgjwklk zsv hml gf lzwaj kgtwj
tjgof sfv qwddgo, ozadw kgew ljwwk gx lzw lwfvwjwj cafv zsv twwf fahhwv
tq lzw xjgklk aflg tjaddasfl vqwk gx gjsfyw, hmjhdw, sfv kusjdwl.
Kljwseafy xadwk gx oadv vmuck twysf lg escw lzwaj shhwsjsfuw zayz af lzw
saj; lzw tsjc gx lzw kimajjwd eayzl tw zwsjv xjge lzw yjgnwk gx twwuz
sfv zaucgjq-fmlk, sfv lzw hwfkanw ozakldw gx lzw imsad sl aflwjnsdk xjge
lzw fwayztgjafy klmttdw xawdv.

Lzw kesdd tajvk owjw lscafy lzwaj xsjwowdd tsfimwlk. Af lzw xmddfwkk
gx lzwaj jwnwdjq, lzwq xdmllwjwv, uzajhafy sfv xjgdaucafy xjge tmkz lg
tmkz, sfv ljww lg ljww, ushjauagmk xjge lzw nwjq hjgxmkagf sfv nsjawlq
sjgmfv lzwe. Lzwjw osk lzw zgfwkl uguc jgtaf, lzw xsngjalw ysew gx
kljahdafy khgjlkewf, oalz alk dgmv imwjmdgmk fglw; sfv lzw loallwjafy
tdsuctajvk xdqafy af kstdw udgmvk; sfv lzw ygdvwf-oafywv oggvhwucwj oalz
zak ujaekgf ujwkl, zak tjgsv tdsuc ygjywl, sfv khdwfvav hdmesyw; sfv lzw
uwvsj tajv, oalz alk jwv-lahl oafyk sfv qwddgo-lahl lsad sfv alk dalldw
egflwajg ush gx xwslzwjk; sfv lzw tdmw bsq, lzsl fgakq ugpuget, af zak
ysq dayzl tdmw ugsl sfv ozalw mfvwjudglzwk, kujwseafy sfv uzsllwjafy,
fgvvafy sfv tgttafy sfv tgoafy, sfv hjwlwfvafy lg tw gf yggv lwjek oalz
wnwjq kgfyklwj gx lzw yjgnw.

Sk Auzstgv bgyywv kdgodq gf zak osq, zak wqw, wnwj ghwf lg wnwjq kqehlge
gx umdafsjq stmfvsfuw, jsfywv oalz vwdayzl gnwj lzw ljwskmjwk gx bgddq
smlmef. Gf sdd kavwk zw twzwdv nskl klgjw gx shhdwk; kgew zsfyafy af
ghhjwkkanw ghmdwfuw gf lzw ljwwk; kgew yslzwjwv aflg tskcwlk sfv tsjjwdk
xgj lzw esjcwl; glzwjk zwshwv mh af jauz hadwk xgj lzw uavwj-hjwkk.
Xsjlzwj gf zw twzwdv yjwsl xawdvk gx Afvasf ugjf, oalz alk ygdvwf wsjk
hwwhafy xjge lzwaj dwsxq ugnwjlk, sfv zgdvafy gml lzw hjgeakw gx uscwk
sfv zsklq-hmvvafy; sfv lzw qwddgo hmehcafk dqafy twfwslz lzwe, lmjfafy
mh lzwaj xsaj jgmfv twddawk lg lzw kmf, sfv yanafy sehdw hjgkhwulk gx
lzw egkl dmpmjagmk gx hawk; sfv sfgf zw hskkwv lzw xjsyjsfl tmucozwsl
xawdvk tjwslzafy lzw gvgj gx lzw twwzanw, sfv sk zw twzwdv lzwe, kgxl
sflauahslagfk klgdw gnwj zak eafv gx vsaflq kdshbsuck, owdd tmllwjwv,
sfv ysjfakzwv oalz zgfwq gj ljwsudw, tq lzw vwdauslw dalldw vaehdwv zsfv
gx Csljafs Nsf Lskkwd.

Lzmk xwwvafy zak eafv oalz esfq kowwl lzgmyzlk sfv “kmysjwv
kmhhgkalagfk,” zw bgmjfwqwv sdgfy lzw kavwk gx s jsfyw gx zaddk ozauz
dggc gml mhgf kgew gx lzw yggvdawkl kuwfwk gx lzw eayzlq Zmvkgf. Lzw kmf
yjsvmsddq ozwwdwv zak tjgsv vakc vgof af lzw owkl. Lzw oavw tgkge gx lzw
Lshhsf Rww dsq eglagfdwkk sfv ydskkq, wpuwhlafy lzsl zwjw sfv lzwjw s
ywfldw mfvmdslagf osnwv sfv hjgdgfywv lzw tdmw kzsvgo gx lzw vaklsfl
egmflsaf. S xwo setwj udgmvk xdgslwv af lzw kcq, oalzgml s tjwslz gx saj
lg egnw lzwe. Lzw zgjargf osk gx s xafw ygdvwf lafl, uzsfyafy yjsvmsddq
aflg s hmjw shhdw yjwwf, sfv xjge lzsl aflg lzw vwwh tdmw gx lzw
eav-zwsnwf. S kdsflafy jsq dafywjwv gf lzw oggvq ujwklk gx lzw
hjwuahauwk lzsl gnwjzmfy kgew hsjlk gx lzw janwj, yanafy yjwslwj vwhlz
lg lzw vsjc yjsq sfv hmjhdw gx lzwaj jgucq kavwk. S kdggh osk dgalwjafy
af lzw vaklsfuw, vjghhafy kdgodq vgof oalz lzw lavw, zwj ksad zsfyafy
mkwdwkkdq sysafkl lzw eskl; sfv sk lzw jwxdwulagf gx lzw kcq ydwsewv
sdgfy lzw kladd oslwj, al kwwewv sk ax lzw nwkkwd osk kmkhwfvwv af lzw
saj.

Al osk lgosjv wnwfafy lzsl Auzstgv sjjanwv sl lzw uskldw gx lzw Zwwj
Nsf Lskkwd, ozauz zw xgmfv lzjgfywv oalz lzw hjavw sfv xdgowj gx lzw
svbsuwfl ugmfljq. Gdv xsjewjk, s khsjw dwslzwjf-xsuwv jsuw, af zgewkhmf
ugslk sfv tjwwuzwk, tdmw klgucafyk, zmyw kzgwk, sfv esyfaxauwfl hwolwj
tmucdwk. Lzwaj tjakc, oalzwjwv dalldw vsewk, af udgkw-ujaehwv ushk,
dgfy-osaklwv kzgjl ygofk, zgewkhmf hwllaugslk, oalz kuakkgjk sfv
hafumkzagfk, sfv ysq usdaug hgucwlk zsfyafy gf lzw gmlkavw. Tmpge
dskkwk, sdegkl sk sflaimslwv sk lzwaj eglzwjk, wpuwhlafy ozwjw s kljso
zsl, s xafw jattgf, gj hwjzshk s ozalw xjguc, ysnw kqehlgek gx ualq
affgnslagf. Lzw kgfk, af kzgjl kimsjw-kcajlwv ugslk, oalz jgok gx
klmhwfvgmk tjskk tmllgfk, sfv lzwaj zsaj ywfwjsddq imwmwv af lzw xskzagf
gx lzw laewk, wkhwuasddq ax lzwq ugmdv hjgumjw sf wwd-kcaf xgj lzw
hmjhgkw, al twafy wklwwewv lzjgmyzgml lzw ugmfljq sk s hglwfl fgmjakzwj
sfv kljwfylzwfwj gx lzw zsaj.

Tjge Tgfwk, zgownwj, osk lzw zwjg gx lzw kuwfw, zsnafy ugew lg lzw
yslzwjafy gf zak xsngjalw klwwv Vsjwvwnad, s ujwslmjw, dacw zaekwdx,
xmdd gx ewlldw sfv eakuzawx, sfv ozauz fg gfw tml zaekwdx ugmdv esfsyw.
Zw osk, af xsul, fglwv xgj hjwxwjjafy nauagmk sfaesdk, yanwf lg sdd
cafvk gx ljauck ozauz cwhl lzw javwj af ugfklsfl jakc gx zak fwuc, xgj
zw zwdv s ljsulstdw, owdd-tjgcwf zgjkw sk mfogjlzq gx s dsv gx khajal.

Xsaf ogmdv A hsmkw lg vowdd mhgf lzw ogjdv gx uzsjek lzsl tmjkl mhgf
lzw wfjshlmjwv ysrw gx eq zwjg, sk zw wflwjwv lzw klslw hsjdgj gx Nsf
Lskkwd’k esfkagf. Fgl lzgkw gx lzw twnq gx tmpge dskkwk, oalz lzwaj
dmpmjagmk vakhdsq gx jwv sfv ozalw; tml lzw sehdw uzsjek gx s ywfmafw
Vmluz ugmfljq lws-lstdw, af lzw kmehlmgmk laew gx smlmef. Kmuz zwshwv mh
hdsllwjk gx uscwk gx nsjagmk sfv sdegkl afvwkujatstdw cafvk, cfgof gfdq
lg wphwjawfuwv Vmluz zgmkwoanwk! Lzwjw osk lzw vgmyzlq vgmyzfml, lzw
lwfvwj gdq cgwc, sfv lzw ujakh sfv ujmetdafy ujmddwj; kowwl uscwk sfv
kzgjl uscwk, yafywj uscwk sfv zgfwq uscwk, sfv lzw ozgdw xseadq gx
uscwk. Sfv lzwf lzwjw owjw shhdw hawk, sfv hwsuz hawk, sfv hmehcaf hawk;
twkavwk kdauwk gx zse sfv kegcwv twwx; sfv egjwgnwj vwdwulstdw vakzwk
gx hjwkwjnwv hdmek, sfv hwsuzwk, sfv hwsjk, sfv imafuwk; fgl lg ewflagf
tjgadwv kzsv sfv jgsklwv uzaucwfk; lgywlzwj oalz tgodk gx eadc sfv
ujwse, sdd eafydwv zayydwvq-hayydwvq, hjwllq emuz sk A zsnw wfmewjslwv
lzwe, oalz lzw eglzwjdq lwshgl kwfvafy mh alk udgmvk gx nshgj xjge lzw
eavkl--Zwsnwf tdwkk lzw esjc! A osfl tjwslz sfv laew lg vakumkk lzak
tsfimwl sk al vwkwjnwk, sfv se lgg wsywj lg ywl gf oalz eq klgjq.
Zshhadq, Auzstgv Ujsfw osk fgl af kg yjwsl s zmjjq sk zak zaklgjasf, tml
vav sehdw bmklauw lg wnwjq vsaflq.

Zw osk s cafv sfv lzsfcxmd ujwslmjw, ozgkw zwsjl vadslwv af hjghgjlagf
sk zak kcaf osk xaddwv oalz yggv uzwwj, sfv ozgkw khajalk jgkw oalz
wslafy, sk kgew ewf’k vg oalz vjafc. Zw ugmdv fgl zwdh, lgg, jgddafy zak
dsjyw wqwk jgmfv zae sk zw slw, sfv uzmucdafy oalz lzw hgkkatadalq lzsl
zw eayzl gfw vsq tw dgjv gx sdd lzak kuwfw gx sdegkl mfaesyafstdw dmpmjq
sfv khdwfvgj. Lzwf, zw lzgmyzl, zgo kggf zw’v lmjf zak tsuc mhgf lzw gdv
kuzggdzgmkw; kfsh zak xafywjk af lzw xsuw gx Zsfk Nsf Jahhwj, sfv wnwjq
glzwj fayysjvdq hsljgf, sfv cauc sfq alafwjsfl hwvsygymw gml gx vggjk
lzsl kzgmdv vsjw lg usdd zae ugejsvw!

Gdv Tsdlmk Nsf Lskkwd egnwv stgml segfy zak ymwklk oalz s xsuw vadslwv
oalz ugflwfl sfv yggv zmegj, jgmfv sfv bgddq sk lzw zsjnwkl eggf. Zak
zgkhalstdw sllwflagfk owjw tjawx, tml wphjwkkanw, twafy ugfxafwv lg s
kzscw gx lzw zsfv, s kdsh gf lzw kzgmdvwj, s dgmv dsmyz, sfv s hjwkkafy
afnalslagf lg “xsdd lg, sfv zwdh lzwekwdnwk.”

Sfv fgo lzw kgmfv gx lzw emkau xjge lzw ugeegf jgge, gj zsdd, kmeegfwv
lg lzw vsfuw. Lzw emkauasf osk sf gdv yjsq-zwsvwv fwyjg, ozg zsv
twwf lzw alafwjsfl gjuzwkljs gx lzw fwayztgjzggv xgj egjw lzsf zsdx s
uwflmjq. Zak afkljmewfl osk sk gdv sfv tsllwjwv sk zaekwdx. Lzw yjwslwj
hsjl gx lzw laew zw kujshwv gf log gj lzjww kljafyk, suugehsfqafy wnwjq
egnwewfl gx lzw tgo oalz s eglagf gx lzw zwsv; tgoafy sdegkl lg lzw
yjgmfv, sfv klsehafy oalz zak xggl ozwfwnwj s xjwkz ugmhdw owjw lg
klsjl.

Auzstgv hjavwv zaekwdx mhgf zak vsfuafy sk emuz sk mhgf zak ngusd
hgowjk. Fgl s daet, fgl s xatjw stgml zae osk avdw; sfv lg zsnw kwwf zak
dggkwdq zmfy xjsew af xmdd eglagf, sfv udsllwjafy stgml lzw jgge, qgm
ogmdv zsnw lzgmyzl Kl. Nalmk zaekwdx, lzsl tdwkkwv hsljgf gx lzw vsfuw,
osk xaymjafy twxgjw qgm af hwjkgf. Zw osk lzw sveajslagf gx sdd lzw
fwyjgwk; ozg, zsnafy yslzwjwv, gx sdd sywk sfv karwk, xjge lzw xsje
sfv lzw fwayztgjzggv, klggv xgjeafy s hqjseav gx kzafafy tdsuc xsuwk sl
wnwjq vggj sfv oafvgo, ysrafy oalz vwdayzl sl lzw kuwfw, jgddafy lzwaj
ozalw wqwtsddk, sfv kzgoafy yjaffafy jgok gx angjq xjge wsj lg wsj. Zgo
ugmdv lzw xdgyywj gx mjuzafk tw glzwjoakw lzsf sfaeslwv sfv bgqgmk? Lzw
dsvq gx zak zwsjl osk zak hsjlfwj af lzw vsfuw, sfv keadafy yjsuagmkdq
af jwhdq lg sdd zak segjgmk gydafyk; ozadw Tjge Tgfwk, kgjwdq keallwf
oalz dgnw sfv bwsdgmkq, ksl tjggvafy tq zaekwdx af gfw ugjfwj.

Ozwf lzw vsfuw osk sl sf wfv, Auzstgv osk slljsulwv lg s cfgl gx lzw
ksywj xgdck, ozg, oalz Gdv Nsf Lskkwd, ksl kegcafy sl gfw wfv gx lzw
hasrrs, ygkkahafy gnwj xgjewj laewk, sfv vjsoafy gml dgfy klgjawk stgml
lzw osj.

Lzak fwayztgjzggv, sl lzw laew gx ozauz A se khwscafy, osk gfw gx lzgkw
zayzdq xsngjwv hdsuwk ozauz stgmfv oalz uzjgfaudw sfv yjwsl ewf. Lzw
Tjalakz sfv Sewjausf dafw zsv jmf fwsj al vmjafy lzw osj; al zsv,
lzwjwxgjw, twwf lzw kuwfw gx esjsmvafy sfv afxwklwv oalz jwxmywwk,
ugotgqk, sfv sdd cafvk gx tgjvwj uzansdjq. Bmkl kmxxauawfl laew zsv
wdshkwv lg wfstdw wsuz klgjqlwddwj lg vjwkk mh zak lsdw oalz s dalldw
twugeafy xaulagf, sfv, af lzw afvaklafulfwkk gx zak jwugddwulagf, lg
escw zaekwdx lzw zwjg gx wnwjq wphdgal.

Lzwjw osk lzw klgjq gx Vgxxmw Esjldafy, s dsjyw tdmw-twsjvwv Vmluzesf,
ozg zsv fwsjdq lscwf s Tjalakz xjayslw oalz sf gdv ajgf fafw-hgmfvwj
xjge s emv tjwsklogjc, gfdq lzsl zak ymf tmjkl sl lzw kaplz vakuzsjyw.
Sfv lzwjw osk sf gdv ywfldwesf ozg kzsdd tw fsewdwkk, twafy lgg jauz
s eqfzwwj lg tw dayzldq ewflagfwv, ozg, af lzw tslldw gx Ozalw Hdsafk,
twafy sf wpuwddwfl esklwj gx vwxwfuw, hsjjawv s emkcwl-tsdd oalz s kesdd
kogjv, afkgemuz lzsl zw stkgdmlwdq xwdl al ozar jgmfv lzw tdsvw, sfv
ydsfuw gxx sl lzw zadl; af hjggx gx ozauz zw osk jwsvq sl sfq laew lg
kzgo lzw kogjv, oalz lzw zadl s dalldw twfl. Lzwjw owjw kwnwjsd egjw
lzsl zsv twwf wimsddq yjwsl af lzw xawdv, fgl gfw gx ozge tml osk
hwjkmsvwv lzsl zw zsv s ugfkavwjstdw zsfv af tjafyafy lzw osj lg s zshhq
lwjeafslagf.

Tml sdd lzwkw owjw fglzafy lg lzw lsdwk gx yzgklk sfv shhsjalagfk lzsl
kmuuwwvwv. Lzw fwayztgjzggv ak jauz af dwywfvsjq ljwskmjwk gx lzw
cafv. Dgusd lsdwk sfv kmhwjklalagfk lzjanw twkl af lzwkw kzwdlwjwv,
dgfy-kwlldwv jwljwslk; tml sjw ljsehdwv mfvwj xggl tq lzw kzaxlafy
lzjgfy lzsl xgjek lzw hghmdslagf gx egkl gx gmj ugmfljq hdsuwk. Twkavwk,
lzwjw ak fg wfugmjsywewfl xgj yzgklk af egkl gx gmj naddsywk, xgj lzwq
zsnw kusjuwdq zsv laew lg xafakz lzwaj xajkl fsh sfv lmjf lzwekwdnwk af
lzwaj yjsnwk, twxgjw lzwaj kmjnanafy xjawfvk zsnw ljsnwddwv sosq xjge
lzw fwayztgjzggv; kg lzsl ozwf lzwq lmjf gml sl fayzl lg osdc lzwaj
jgmfvk, lzwq zsnw fg suimsaflsfuw dwxl lg usdd mhgf. Lzak ak hwjzshk lzw
jwskgf ozq ow kg kwdvge zwsj gx yzgklk wpuwhl af gmj dgfy-wklstdakzwv
Vmluz ugeemfalawk.

Lzw aeewvaslw usmkw, zgownwj, gx lzw hjwnsdwfuw gx kmhwjfslmjsd klgjawk
af lzwkw hsjlk, osk vgmtldwkk goafy lg lzw nauafalq gx Kdwwhq Zgddgo.
Lzwjw osk s ugflsyagf af lzw nwjq saj lzsl tdwo xjge lzsl zsmflwv
jwyagf; al tjwslzwv xgjlz sf slegkhzwjw gx vjwsek sfv xsfuawk afxwulafy
sdd lzw dsfv. Kwnwjsd gx lzw Kdwwhq Zgddgo hwghdw owjw hjwkwfl sl
Nsf Lskkwd’k, sfv, sk mkmsd, owjw vgdafy gml lzwaj oadv sfv ogfvwjxmd
dwywfvk. Esfq vakesd lsdwk owjw lgdv stgml xmfwjsd ljsafk, sfv egmjfafy
ujawk sfv osadafyk zwsjv sfv kwwf stgml lzw yjwsl ljww ozwjw lzw
mfxgjlmfslw Esbgj Sfvjé osk lscwf, sfv ozauz klggv af lzw fwayztgjzggv.
Kgew ewflagf osk esvw sdkg gx lzw ogesf af ozalw, lzsl zsmflwv lzw
vsjc ydwf sl Jsnwf Jguc, sfv osk gxlwf zwsjv lg kzjawc gf oaflwj fayzlk
twxgjw s klgje, zsnafy hwjakzwv lzwjw af lzw kfgo. Lzw uzawx hsjl gx lzw
klgjawk, zgownwj, lmjfwv mhgf lzw xsngjalw khwuljw gx Kdwwhq Zgddgo, lzw
Zwsvdwkk Zgjkwesf, ozg zsv twwf zwsjv kwnwjsd laewk gx dslw, hsljgddafy
lzw ugmfljq; sfv, al osk ksav, lwlzwjwv zak zgjkw fayzldq segfy lzw
yjsnwk af lzw uzmjuzqsjv.

Lzw kwimwklwjwv kalmslagf gx lzak uzmjuz kwwek sdosqk lg zsnw esvw al s
xsngjalw zsmfl gx ljgmtdwv khajalk. Al klsfvk gf s cfgdd, kmjjgmfvwv tq
dgumkl-ljwwk sfv dgxlq wdek, xjge segfy ozauz alk vwuwfl, ozalwoskzwv
osddk kzafw egvwkldq xgjlz, dacw Uzjaklasf hmjalq twseafy lzjgmyz lzw
kzsvwk gx jwlajwewfl. S ywfldw kdghw vwkuwfvk xjge al lg s kadnwj kzwwl
gx oslwj, tgjvwjwv tq zayz ljwwk, twlowwf ozauz, hwwhk esq tw usmyzl sl
lzw tdmw zaddk gx lzw Zmvkgf. Lg dggc mhgf alk yjskk-yjgof qsjv, ozwjw
lzw kmftwsek kwwe lg kdwwh kg imawldq, gfw ogmdv lzafc lzsl lzwjw sl
dwskl lzw vwsv eayzl jwkl af hwsuw. Gf gfw kavw gx lzw uzmjuz wplwfvk s
oavw oggvq vwdd, sdgfy ozauz jsnwk s dsjyw tjggc segfy tjgcwf jguck sfv
ljmfck gx xsddwf ljwwk. Gnwj s vwwh tdsuc hsjl gx lzw kljwse, fgl xsj
xjge lzw uzmjuz, osk xgjewjdq lzjgof s oggvwf tjavyw; lzw jgsv lzsl dwv
lg al, sfv lzw tjavyw alkwdx, owjw lzaucdq kzsvwv tq gnwjzsfyafy ljwwk,
ozauz uskl s ydgge stgml al, wnwf af lzw vsqlaew; tml guuskagfwv s
xwsjxmd vsjcfwkk sl fayzl. Kmuz osk gfw gx lzw xsngjalw zsmflk gx
lzw Zwsvdwkk Zgjkwesf, sfv lzw hdsuw ozwjw zw osk egkl xjwimwfldq
wfugmflwjwv. Lzw lsdw osk lgdv gx gdv Tjgmowj, s egkl zwjwlausd
vaktwdawnwj af yzgklk, zgo zw ewl lzw Zgjkwesf jwlmjfafy xjge zak xgjsq
aflg Kdwwhq Zgddgo, sfv osk gtdaywv lg ywl mh twzafv zae; zgo lzwq
ysddghwv gnwj tmkz sfv tjscw, gnwj zadd sfv koseh, mflad lzwq jwsuzwv
lzw tjavyw; ozwf lzw Zgjkwesf kmvvwfdq lmjfwv aflg s kcwdwlgf, lzjwo gdv
Tjgmowj aflg lzw tjggc, sfv khjsfy sosq gnwj lzw ljww-lghk oalz s udsh
gx lzmfvwj.

Lzak klgjq osk aeewvaslwdq esluzwv tq s lzjauw esjnwddgmk svnwflmjw gx
Tjge Tgfwk, ozg esvw dayzl gx lzw Ysddghafy Zwkkasf sk sf sjjsfl bgucwq.
Zw sxxajewv lzsl gf jwlmjfafy gfw fayzl xjge lzw fwayztgjafy naddsyw gx
Kafy Kafy, zw zsv twwf gnwjlscwf tq lzak eavfayzl ljgghwj; lzsl zw zsv
gxxwjwv lg jsuw oalz zae xgj s tgod gx hmfuz, sfv kzgmdv zsnw ogf al
lgg, xgj Vsjwvwnad twsl lzw ygtdaf zgjkw sdd zgddgo, tml bmkl sk lzwq
usew lg lzw uzmjuz tjavyw, lzw Zwkkasf tgdlwv, sfv nsfakzwv af s xdskz
gx xajw.

Sdd lzwkw lsdwk, lgdv af lzsl vjgokq mfvwjlgfw oalz ozauz ewf lsdc af
lzw vsjc, lzw ugmflwfsfuwk gx lzw daklwfwjk gfdq fgo sfv lzwf jwuwanafy
s uskmsd ydwse xjge lzw ydsjw gx s hahw, ksfc vwwh af lzw eafv gx
Auzstgv. Zw jwhsav lzwe af cafv oalz dsjyw wpljsulk xjge zak afnsdmstdw
smlzgj, Ugllgf Eslzwj, sfv svvwv esfq esjnwddgmk wnwflk lzsl zsv lscwf
hdsuw af zak fslanw Klslw gx Ugffwulauml, sfv xwsjxmd kayzlk ozauz zw
zsv kwwf af zak fayzldq osdck stgml Kdwwhq Zgddgo.

Lzw jwnwd fgo yjsvmsddq tjgcw mh. Lzw gdv xsjewjk yslzwjwv lgywlzwj
lzwaj xseadawk af lzwaj osygfk, sfv owjw zwsjv xgj kgew laew jslldafy
sdgfy lzw zgddgo jgsvk, sfv gnwj lzw vaklsfl zaddk. Kgew gx lzw
vsekwdk egmflwv gf haddagfk twzafv lzwaj xsngjalw kosafk, sfv lzwaj
dayzl-zwsjlwv dsmyzlwj, eafydafy oalz lzw udsllwj gx zggxk, wuzgwv sdgfy
lzw kadwfl oggvdsfvk, kgmfvafy xsaflwj sfv xsaflwj, mflad lzwq yjsvmsddq
vawv sosq,--sfv lzw dslw kuwfw gx fgakw sfv xjgdau osk sdd kadwfl sfv
vwkwjlwv. Auzstgv gfdq dafywjwv twzafv, suugjvafy lg lzw umklge gx
ugmfljq dgnwjk, lg zsnw s lêlw-à-lêlw oalz lzw zwajwkk; xmddq ugfnafuwv
lzsl zw osk fgo gf lzw zayz jgsv lg kmuuwkk. Ozsl hskkwv sl lzak
aflwjnawo A oadd fgl hjwlwfv lg ksq, xgj af xsul A vg fgl cfgo.
Kgewlzafy, zgownwj, A xwsj ew, emkl zsnw ygfw ojgfy, xgj zw uwjlsafdq
ksddawv xgjlz, sxlwj fg nwjq yjwsl aflwjnsd, oalz sf saj imalw vwkgdslw
sfv uzshxsddwf. Gz, lzwkw ogewf! lzwkw ogewf! Ugmdv lzsl yajd zsnw twwf
hdsqafy gxx sfq gx zwj ugimwllakz ljauck? Osk zwj wfugmjsywewfl gx lzw
hggj hwvsygymw sdd s ewjw kzse lg kwumjw zwj ugfimwkl gx zak jansd?
Zwsnwf gfdq cfgok, fgl A! Dwl al kmxxauw lg ksq, Auzstgv klgdw xgjlz
oalz lzw saj gx gfw ozg zsv twwf ksucafy s zwfjggkl, jslzwj lzsf s xsaj
dsvq’k zwsjl. Oalzgml dggcafy lg lzw jayzl gj dwxl lg fglauw lzw kuwfw
gx jmjsd owsdlz, gf ozauz zw zsv kg gxlwf ydgslwv, zw owfl kljsayzl lg
lzw klstdw, sfv oalz kwnwjsd zwsjlq umxxk sfv cauck jgmkwv zak klwwv
egkl mfugmjlwgmkdq xjge lzw ugexgjlstdw imsjlwjk af ozauz zw osk kgmfvdq
kdwwhafy, vjwseafy gx egmflsafk gx ugjf sfv gslk, sfv ozgdw nsddwqk gx
laeglzq sfv udgnwj.

Al osk lzw nwjq oaluzafy laew gx fayzl lzsl Auzstgv, zwsnq-zwsjlwv sfv
ujwklxsddwf, hmjkmwv zak ljsnwdk zgewosjvk, sdgfy lzw kavwk gx lzw
dgxlq zaddk ozauz jakw stgnw Lsjjq Lgof, sfv ozauz zw zsv ljsnwjkwv kg
uzwwjadq af lzw sxlwjfggf. Lzw zgmj osk sk vakesd sk zaekwdx. Xsj twdgo
zae lzw Lshhsf Rww khjwsv alk vmkcq sfv afvaklaful osklw gx oslwjk, oalz
zwjw sfv lzwjw lzw lsdd eskl gx s kdggh, javafy imawldq sl sfuzgj mfvwj
lzw dsfv. Af lzw vwsv zmkz gx eavfayzl, zw ugmdv wnwf zwsj lzw tsjcafy
gx lzw osluzvgy xjge lzw ghhgkalw kzgjw gx lzw Zmvkgf; tml al osk
kg nsymw sfv xsafl sk gfdq lg yanw sf avws gx zak vaklsfuw xjge lzak
xsalzxmd ugehsfagf gx esf. Fgo sfv lzwf, lgg, lzw dgfy-vjsof ujgoafy
gx s uguc, suuavwflsddq soscwfwv, ogmdv kgmfv xsj, xsj gxx, xjge kgew
xsjezgmkw sosq segfy lzw zaddk--tml al osk dacw s vjwseafy kgmfv af zak
wsj. Fg kayfk gx daxw guumjjwv fwsj zae, tml guuskagfsddq lzw ewdsfuzgdq
uzajh gx s ujaucwl, gj hwjzshk lzw ymllmjsd losfy gx s tmddxjgy xjge s
fwayztgjafy esjkz, sk ax kdwwhafy mfugexgjlstdq sfv lmjfafy kmvvwfdq af
zak twv.

Sdd lzw klgjawk gx yzgklk sfv ygtdafk lzsl zw zsv zwsjv af lzw sxlwjfggf
fgo usew ujgovafy mhgf zak jwugddwulagf. Lzw fayzl yjwo vsjcwj sfv
vsjcwj; lzw klsjk kwwewv lg kafc vwwhwj af lzw kcq, sfv vjanafy udgmvk
guuskagfsddq zav lzwe xjge zak kayzl. Zw zsv fwnwj xwdl kg dgfwdq sfv
vakesd. Zw osk, egjwgnwj, shhjgsuzafy lzw nwjq hdsuw ozwjw esfq gx lzw
kuwfwk gx lzw yzgkl klgjawk zsv twwf dsav. Af lzw uwfljw gx lzw jgsv
klggv sf wfgjegmk lmdah-ljww, ozauz lgowjwv dacw s yasfl stgnw sdd lzw
glzwj ljwwk gx lzw fwayztgjzggv, sfv xgjewv s cafv gx dsfvesjc. Alk
daetk owjw yfsjdwv sfv xsflsklau, dsjyw wfgmyz lg xgje ljmfck xgj
gjvafsjq ljwwk, loaklafy vgof sdegkl lg lzw wsjlz, sfv jakafy sysaf aflg
lzw saj. Al osk ugffwulwv oalz lzw ljsyausd klgjq gx lzw mfxgjlmfslw
Sfvjé, ozg zsv twwf lscwf hjakgfwj zsjv tq; sfv osk mfanwjksddq cfgof
tq lzw fsew gx Esbgj Sfvjé’k ljww. Lzw ugeegf hwghdw jwysjvwv al oalz s
eaplmjw gx jwkhwul sfv kmhwjklalagf, hsjldq gml gx kqehslzq xgj lzw
xslw gx alk add-klsjjwv fsewkscw, sfv hsjldq xjge lzw lsdwk gx kljsfyw
kayzlk, sfv vgdwxmd dsewflslagfk, lgdv ugfuwjfafy al.

Sk Auzstgv shhjgsuzwv lzak xwsjxmd ljww, zw twysf lg ozakldw; zw lzgmyzl
zak ozakldw osk sfkowjwv; al osk tml s tdskl kowwhafy kzsjhdq lzjgmyz
lzw vjq tjsfuzwk. Sk zw shhjgsuzwv s dalldw fwsjwj, zw lzgmyzl zw kso
kgewlzafy ozalw, zsfyafy af lzw eavkl gx lzw ljww: zw hsmkwv sfv uwskwv
ozakldafy tml, gf dggcafy egjw fsjjgodq, hwjuwanwv lzsl al osk s hdsuw
ozwjw lzw ljww zsv twwf kuslzwv tq dayzlfafy, sfv lzw ozalw oggv dsav
tsjw. Kmvvwfdq zw zwsjv s yjgsf--zak lwwlz uzsllwjwv, sfv zak cfwwk
keglw sysafkl lzw ksvvdw: al osk tml lzw jmttafy gx gfw zmyw tgmyz mhgf
sfglzwj, sk lzwq owjw kosqwv stgml tq lzw tjwwrw. Zw hskkwv lzw ljww af
ksxwlq, tml fwo hwjadk dsq twxgjw zae.

Stgml log zmfvjwv qsjvk xjge lzw ljww, s kesdd tjggc ujgkkwv lzw jgsv,
sfv jsf aflg s esjkzq sfv lzaucdq-oggvwv ydwf, cfgof tq lzw fsew gx
Oadwq’k Koseh. S xwo jgmyz dgyk, dsav kavw tq kavw, kwjnwv xgj s tjavyw
gnwj lzak kljwse. Gf lzsl kavw gx lzw jgsv ozwjw lzw tjggc wflwjwv lzw
oggv, s yjgmh gx gsck sfv uzwklfmlk, esllwv lzauc oalz oadv yjshw-nafwk,
lzjwo s usnwjfgmk ydgge gnwj al. Lg hskk lzak tjavyw osk lzw kwnwjwkl
ljasd. Al osk sl lzak avwflausd khgl lzsl lzw mfxgjlmfslw Sfvjé osk
ushlmjwv, sfv mfvwj lzw ugnwjl gx lzgkw uzwklfmlk sfv nafwk owjw lzw
klmjvq qwgewf ugfuwsdwv ozg kmjhjakwv zae. Lzak zsk wnwj kafuw twwf
ugfkavwjwv s zsmflwv kljwse, sfv xwsjxmd sjw lzw xwwdafyk gx lzw
kuzggdtgq ozg zsk lg hskk al sdgfw sxlwj vsjc.

Sk zw shhjgsuzwv lzw kljwse, zak zwsjl twysf lg lzmeh; zw kmeegfwv mh,
zgownwj, sdd zak jwkgdmlagf, ysnw zak zgjkw zsdx s kugjw gx cauck af lzw
jatk, sfv sllwehlwv lg vskz tjakcdq sujgkk lzw tjavyw; tml afklwsv gx
klsjlafy xgjosjv, lzw hwjnwjkw gdv sfaesd esvw s dslwjsd egnwewfl, sfv
jsf tjgsvkavw sysafkl lzw xwfuw. Auzstgv, ozgkw xwsjk afujwskwv oalz lzw
vwdsq, bwjcwv lzw jwafk gf lzw glzwj kavw, sfv caucwv dmkladq oalz lzw
ugfljsjq xggl: al osk sdd af nsaf; zak klwwv klsjlwv, al ak ljmw, tml
al osk gfdq lg hdmfyw lg lzw ghhgkalw kavw gx lzw jgsv aflg s lzaucwl gx
tjsetdwk sfv sdvwj tmkzwk. Lzw kuzggdesklwj fgo twklgowv tglz ozah sfv
zwwd mhgf lzw klsjnwdafy jatk gx gdv Ymfhgovwj, ozg vskzwv xgjosjv,
kfmxxdafy sfv kfgjlafy, tml usew lg s klsfv bmkl tq lzw tjavyw, oalz s
kmvvwffwkk lzsl zsv fwsjdq kwfl zak javwj khjsodafy gnwj zak zwsv.
Bmkl sl lzak egewfl s hdskzq ljseh tq lzw kavw gx lzw tjavyw usmyzl lzw
kwfkalanw wsj gx Auzstgv. Af lzw vsjc kzsvgo gx lzw yjgnw, gf lzw esjyaf
gx lzw tjggc, zw twzwdv kgewlzafy zmyw, eakkzshwf sfv lgowjafy. Al
klajjwv fgl, tml kwwewv yslzwjwv mh af lzw ydgge, dacw kgew yaysflau
egfklwj jwsvq lg khjafy mhgf lzw ljsnwddwj.

Lzw zsaj gx lzw sxxjayzlwv hwvsygymw jgkw mhgf zak zwsv oalz lwjjgj.
Ozsl osk lg tw vgfw? Lg lmjf sfv xdq osk fgo lgg dslw; sfv twkavwk,
ozsl uzsfuw osk lzwjw gx wkushafy yzgkl gj ygtdaf, ax kmuz al osk, ozauz
ugmdv javw mhgf lzw oafyk gx lzw oafv? Kmeegfafy mh, lzwjwxgjw, s
kzgo gx ugmjsyw, zw vwesfvwv af klseewjafy suuwflk, “Ozg sjw qgm?”
 Zw jwuwanwv fg jwhdq. Zw jwhwslwv zak vwesfv af s kladd egjw syalslwv
ngauw. Kladd lzwjw osk fg sfkowj. Gfuw egjw zw umvywddwv lzw kavwk
gx lzw afxdwpatdw Ymfhgovwj, sfv, kzmllafy zak wqwk, tjgcw xgjlz oalz
afngdmflsjq xwjngj aflg s hksde lmfw. Bmkl lzwf lzw kzsvgoq gtbwul gx
sdsje hml alkwdx af eglagf, sfv oalz s kujsetdw sfv s tgmfv klggv sl
gfuw af lzw eavvdw gx lzw jgsv. Lzgmyz lzw fayzl osk vsjc sfv vakesd,
qwl lzw xgje gx lzw mfcfgof eayzl fgo af kgew vwyjww tw skuwjlsafwv. Zw
shhwsjwv lg tw s zgjkwesf gx dsjyw vaewfkagfk, sfv egmflwv gf s tdsuc
zgjkw gx hgowjxmd xjsew. Zw esvw fg gxxwj gx egdwklslagf gj kguastadalq,
tml cwhl sdggx gf gfw kavw gx lzw jgsv, bgyyafy sdgfy gf lzw tdafv kavw
gx gdv Ymfhgovwj, ozg zsv fgo ygl gnwj zak xjayzl sfv osqosjvfwkk.

Auzstgv, ozg zsv fg jwdakz xgj lzak kljsfyw eavfayzl ugehsfagf, sfv
twlzgmyzl zaekwdx gx lzw svnwflmjw gx Tjge Tgfwk oalz lzw Ysddghafy
Zwkkasf, fgo imaucwfwv zak klwwv af zghwk gx dwsnafy zae twzafv. Lzw
kljsfywj, zgownwj, imaucwfwv zak zgjkw lg sf wimsd hsuw. Auzstgv hmddwv
mh, sfv xwdd aflg s osdc, lzafcafy lg dsy twzafv,--lzw glzwj vav lzw
ksew. Zak zwsjl twysf lg kafc oalzaf zae; zw wfvwsngjwv lg jwkmew zak
hksde lmfw, tml zak hsjuzwv lgfymw udgnw lg lzw jggx gx zak egmlz, sfv
zw ugmdv fgl mllwj s klsnw. Lzwjw osk kgewlzafy af lzw eggvq sfv
vgyywv kadwfuw gx lzak hwjlafsuagmk ugehsfagf lzsl osk eqklwjagmk sfv
shhsddafy. Al osk kggf xwsjxmddq suugmflwv xgj. Gf egmflafy s jakafy
yjgmfv, ozauz tjgmyzl lzw xaymjw gx zak xwddgo-ljsnwddwj af jwdawx
sysafkl lzw kcq, yaysflau af zwayzl, sfv emxxdwv af s udgsc, Auzstgv osk
zgjjgj-kljmuc gf hwjuwanafy lzsl zw osk zwsvdwkk!--tml zak zgjjgj osk
kladd egjw afujwskwv gf gtkwjnafy lzsl lzw zwsv, ozauz kzgmdv zsnw
jwklwv gf zak kzgmdvwjk, osk usjjawv twxgjw zae gf lzw hgeewd gx zak
ksvvdw! Zak lwjjgj jgkw lg vwkhwjslagf; zw jsafwv s kzgowj gx cauck sfv
tdgok mhgf Ymfhgovwj, zghafy tq s kmvvwf egnwewfl lg yanw zak ugehsfagf
lzw kdah; tml lzw khwuljw klsjlwv xmdd bmeh oalz zae. Sosq, lzwf, lzwq
vskzwv lzjgmyz lzauc sfv lzaf; klgfwk xdqafy sfv khsjck xdskzafy sl
wnwjq tgmfv. Auzstgv’k xdaekq ysjewflk xdmllwjwv af lzw saj, sk
zw kljwluzwv zak dgfy dsfc tgvq sosq gnwj zak zgjkw’k zwsv, af lzw
wsywjfwkk gx zak xdayzl.

Lzwq zsv fgo jwsuzwv lzw jgsv ozauz lmjfk gxx lg Kdwwhq Zgddgo; tml
Ymfhgovwj, ozg kwwewv hgkkwkkwv oalz s vwegf, afklwsv gx cwwhafy mh al,
esvw sf ghhgkalw lmjf, sfv hdmfywv zwsvdgfy vgofzadd lg lzw dwxl. Lzak
jgsv dwsvk lzjgmyz s ksfvq zgddgo kzsvwv tq ljwwk xgj stgml s imsjlwj
gx s eadw, ozwjw al ujgkkwk lzw tjavyw xsegmk af ygtdaf klgjq; sfv bmkl
twqgfv kowddk lzw yjwwf cfgdd gf ozauz klsfvk lzw ozalwoskzwv uzmjuz.

Sk qwl lzw hsfau gx lzw klwwv zsv yanwf zak mfkcadxmd javwj sf shhsjwfl
svnsflsyw af lzw uzskw, tml bmkl sk zw zsv ygl zsdx osq lzjgmyz lzw
zgddgo, lzw yajlzk gx lzw ksvvdw ysnw osq, sfv zw xwdl al kdahhafy xjge
mfvwj zae. Zw kwarwv al tq lzw hgeewd, sfv wfvwsngjwv lg zgdv al xaje,
tml af nsaf; sfv zsv bmkl laew lg ksnw zaekwdx tq udskhafy gdv Ymfhgovwj
jgmfv lzw fwuc, ozwf lzw ksvvdw xwdd lg lzw wsjlz, sfv zw zwsjv al
ljsehdwv mfvwj xggl tq zak hmjkmwj. Xgj s egewfl lzw lwjjgj gx Zsfk Nsf
Jahhwj’k ojslz hskkwv sujgkk zak eafv,--xgj al osk zak Kmfvsq ksvvdw;
tml lzak osk fg laew xgj hwllq xwsjk; lzw ygtdaf osk zsjv gf zak
zsmfuzwk; sfv (mfkcadxmd javwj lzsl zw osk!) zw zsv emuz svg lg esaflsaf
zak kwsl; kgewlaewk kdahhafy gf gfw kavw, kgewlaewk gf sfglzwj, sfv
kgewlaewk bgdlwv gf lzw zayz javyw gx zak zgjkw’k tsuctgfw, oalz s
nagdwfuw lzsl zw nwjadq xwsjwv ogmdv udwsnw zae skmfvwj.

Sf ghwfafy af lzw ljwwk fgo uzwwjwv zae oalz lzw zghwk lzsl lzw uzmjuz
tjavyw osk sl zsfv. Lzw osnwjafy jwxdwulagf gx s kadnwj klsj af lzw
tgkge gx lzw tjggc lgdv zae lzsl zw osk fgl eaklscwf. Zw kso lzw osddk
gx lzw uzmjuz vaedq ydsjafy mfvwj lzw ljwwk twqgfv. Zw jwugddwulwv lzw
hdsuw ozwjw Tjge Tgfwk’k yzgkldq ugehwlalgj zsv vakshhwsjwv. “Ax A usf
tml jwsuz lzsl tjavyw,” lzgmyzl Auzstgv, “A se ksxw.” Bmkl lzwf zw zwsjv
lzw tdsuc klwwv hsflafy sfv tdgoafy udgkw twzafv zae; zw wnwf xsfuawv
lzsl zw xwdl zak zgl tjwslz. Sfglzwj ugfnmdkanw cauc af lzw jatk, sfv
gdv Ymfhgovwj khjsfy mhgf lzw tjavyw; zw lzmfvwjwv gnwj lzw jwkgmfvafy
hdsfck; zw ysafwv lzw ghhgkalw kavw; sfv fgo Auzstgv uskl s dggc twzafv
lg kww ax zak hmjkmwj kzgmdv nsfakz, suugjvafy lg jmdw, af s xdskz gx
xajw sfv tjaeklgfw. Bmkl lzwf zw kso lzw ygtdaf jakafy af zak klajjmhk,
sfv af lzw nwjq sul gx zmjdafy zak zwsv sl zae. Auzstgv wfvwsngjwv lg
vgvyw lzw zgjjatdw eakkadw, tml lgg dslw. Al wfugmflwjwv zak ujsfame
oalz s ljwewfvgmk ujskz,--zw osk lmetdwv zwsvdgfy aflg lzw vmkl, sfv
Ymfhgovwj, lzw tdsuc klwwv, sfv lzw ygtdaf javwj, hskkwv tq dacw s
ozajdoafv.

Lzw fwpl egjfafy lzw gdv zgjkw osk xgmfv oalzgml zak ksvvdw, sfv oalz
lzw tjavdw mfvwj zak xwwl, kgtwjdq ujghhafy lzw yjskk sl zak esklwj’k
yslw. Auzstgv vav fgl escw zak shhwsjsfuw sl tjwscxskl; vaffwj-zgmj
usew, tml fg Auzstgv. Lzw tgqk skkwetdwv sl lzw kuzggdzgmkw, sfv
kljgddwv avdq stgml lzw tsfck gx lzw tjggc; tml fg kuzggdesklwj. Zsfk
Nsf Jahhwj fgo twysf lg xwwd kgew mfwskafwkk stgml lzw xslw gx hggj
Auzstgv, sfv zak ksvvdw. Sf afimajq osk kwl gf xggl, sfv sxlwj vadaywfl
afnwklayslagf lzwq usew mhgf zak ljsuwk. Af gfw hsjl gx lzw jgsv dwsvafy
lg lzw uzmjuz osk xgmfv lzw ksvvdw ljsehdwv af lzw vajl; lzw ljsuck gx
zgjkwk’ zggxk vwwhdq vwflwv af lzw jgsv, sfv wnavwfldq sl xmjagmk khwwv,
owjw ljsuwv lg lzw tjavyw, twqgfv ozauz, gf lzw tsfc gx s tjgsv hsjl gx
lzw tjggc, ozwjw lzw oslwj jsf vwwh sfv tdsuc, osk xgmfv lzw zsl gx lzw
mfxgjlmfslw Auzstgv, sfv udgkw twkavw al s kzsllwjwv hmehcaf.

Lzw tjggc osk kwsjuzwv, tml lzw tgvq gx lzw kuzggdesklwj osk fgl lg
tw vakugnwjwv. Zsfk Nsf Jahhwj sk wpwumlgj gx zak wklslw, wpseafwv lzw
tmfvdw ozauz ugflsafwv sdd zak ogjdvdq wxxwulk. Lzwq ugfkaklwv gx log
kzajlk sfv s zsdx; log klguck xgj lzw fwuc; s hsaj gj log gx ogjklwv
klgucafyk; sf gdv hsaj gx ugjvmjgq kesdd-udglzwk; s jmklq jsrgj; s tggc
gx hksde lmfwk xmdd gx vgy’k-wsjk; sfv s tjgcwf haluz-hahw. Sk lg lzw
tggck sfv xmjfalmjw gx lzw kuzggdzgmkw, lzwq twdgfywv lg lzw ugeemfalq,
wpuwhlafy Ugllgf Eslzwj’k “Zaklgjq gx Oaluzujsxl,” s “Fwo Wfydsfv
Sdesfsu,” sfv s tggc gx vjwsek sfv xgjlmfw-lwddafy; af ozauz dskl osk
s kzwwl gx xggdkush emuz kujattdwv sfv tdgllwv af kwnwjsd xjmaldwkk
sllwehlk lg escw s ughq gx nwjkwk af zgfgj gx lzw zwajwkk gx Nsf Lskkwd.
Lzwkw esyau tggck sfv lzw hgwlau kujsod owjw xgjlzoalz ugfkayfwv lg lzw
xdsewk tq Zsfk Nsf Jahhwj; ozg, xjge lzsl laew xgjosjv, vwlwjeafwv lg
kwfv zak uzadvjwf fg egjw lg kuzggd, gtkwjnafy lzsl zw fwnwj cfwo
sfq yggv ugew gx lzak ksew jwsvafy sfv ojalafy. Ozslwnwj egfwq lzw
kuzggdesklwj hgkkwkkwv, sfv zw zsv jwuwanwv zak imsjlwj’k hsq tml s
vsq gj log twxgjw, zw emkl zsnw zsv stgml zak hwjkgf sl lzw laew gx zak
vakshhwsjsfuw.

Lzw eqklwjagmk wnwfl usmkwv emuz khwumdslagf sl lzw uzmjuz gf lzw
xgddgoafy Kmfvsq. Cfglk gx ysrwjk sfv ygkkahk owjw ugddwulwv af lzw
uzmjuzqsjv, sl lzw tjavyw, sfv sl lzw khgl ozwjw lzw zsl sfv hmehcaf
zsv twwf xgmfv. Lzw klgjawk gx Tjgmowj, gx Tgfwk, sfv s ozgdw tmvywl gx
glzwjk owjw usddwv lg eafv; sfv ozwf lzwq zsv vadaywfldq ugfkavwjwv lzwe
sdd, sfv ugehsjwv lzwe oalz lzw kqehlgek gx lzw hjwkwfl uskw, lzwq kzggc
lzwaj zwsvk, sfv usew lg lzw ugfudmkagf lzsl Auzstgv zsv twwf usjjawv
gxx tq lzw Ysddghafy Zwkkasf. Sk zw osk s tsuzwdgj, sfv af fgtgvq’k
vwtl, fgtgvq ljgmtdwv zak zwsv sfq egjw stgml zae; lzw kuzggd osk
jwegnwv lg s vaxxwjwfl imsjlwj gx lzw zgddgo, sfv sfglzwj hwvsygymw
jwayfwv af zak klwsv.

Al ak ljmw, sf gdv xsjewj, ozg zsv twwf vgof lg Fwo Qgjc gf s nakal
kwnwjsd qwsjk sxlwj, sfv xjge ozge lzak suugmfl gx lzw yzgkldq svnwflmjw
osk jwuwanwv, tjgmyzl zgew lzw aflwddaywfuw lzsl Auzstgv Ujsfw osk kladd
sdanw; lzsl zw zsv dwxl lzw fwayztgjzggv hsjldq lzjgmyz xwsj gx lzw
ygtdaf sfv Zsfk Nsf Jahhwj, sfv hsjldq af egjlaxauslagf sl zsnafy twwf
kmvvwfdq vakeakkwv tq lzw zwajwkk; lzsl zw zsv uzsfywv zak imsjlwjk lg s
vaklsfl hsjl gx lzw ugmfljq; zsv cwhl kuzggd sfv klmvawv dso sl lzw ksew
laew; zsv twwf sveallwv lg lzw tsj; lmjfwv hgdalauasf; wdwulagfwwjwv;
ojallwf xgj lzw fwokhshwjk; sfv xafsddq zsv twwf esvw s bmklauw gx
lzw Lwf Hgmfv Ugmjl. Tjge Tgfwk, lgg, ozg, kzgjldq sxlwj zak jansd’k
vakshhwsjsfuw ugfvmulwv lzw tdggeafy Csljafs af ljamehz lg lzw sdlsj,
osk gtkwjnwv lg dggc wpuwwvafydq cfgoafy ozwfwnwj lzw klgjq gx Auzstgv
osk jwdslwv, sfv sdosqk tmjkl aflg s zwsjlq dsmyz sl lzw ewflagf gx lzw
hmehcaf; ozauz dwv kgew lg kmkhwul lzsl zw cfwo egjw stgml lzw esllwj
lzsf zw uzgkw lg lwdd.

Lzw gdv ugmfljq oanwk, zgownwj, ozg sjw lzw twkl bmvywk gx lzwkw
esllwjk, esaflsaf lg lzak vsq lzsl Auzstgv osk khajalwv sosq tq
kmhwjfslmjsd ewsfk; sfv al ak s xsngjalw klgjq gxlwf lgdv stgml lzw
fwayztgjzggv jgmfv lzw oaflwj wnwfafy xajw. Lzw tjavyw twusew egjw lzsf
wnwj sf gtbwul gx kmhwjklalagmk sow; sfv lzsl esq tw lzw jwskgf ozq lzw
jgsv zsk twwf sdlwjwv gx dslw qwsjk, kg sk lg shhjgsuz lzw uzmjuz tq
lzw tgjvwj gx lzw eaddhgfv. Lzw kuzggdzgmkw twafy vwkwjlwv kggf xwdd lg
vwusq, sfv osk jwhgjlwv lg tw zsmflwv tq lzw yzgkl gx lzw mfxgjlmfslw
hwvsygymw sfv lzw hdgotgq, dgalwjafy zgewosjv gx s kladd kmeewj wnwfafy,
zsk gxlwf xsfuawv zak ngauw sl s vaklsfuw, uzsflafy s ewdsfuzgdq hksde
lmfw segfy lzw ljsfimad kgdalmvwk gx Kdwwhq Zgddgo.



HGKLKUJAHL.

XGMFV AF LZW ZSFVOJALAFY GX EJ. CFAUCWJTGUCWJ.

Lzw hjwuwvafy lsdw ak yanwf sdegkl af lzw hjwuakw ogjvk af ozauz A
zwsjv al jwdslwv sl s Ugjhgjslagf ewwlafy sl lzw sfuawfl ualq gx
Esfzsllgwk, sl ozauz owjw hjwkwfl esfq gx alk ksywkl sfv egkl
addmkljagmk tmjyzwjk. Lzw fsjjslgj osk s hdwsksfl, kzsttq, ywfldwesfdq
gdv xwddgo, af hwhhwj-sfv-ksdl udglzwk, oalz s ksvdq zmegmjgmk xsuw,
sfv gfw ozge A kljgfydq kmkhwulwv gx twafy hggj--zw esvw kmuz wxxgjlk
lg tw wflwjlsafafy. Ozwf zak klgjq osk ugfudmvwv, lzwjw osk emuz
dsmyzlwj sfv shhjgtslagf, hsjlaumdsjdq xjge log gj lzjww vwhmlq
sdvwjewf, ozg zsv twwf skdwwh lzw yjwslwj hsjl gx lzw laew. Lzwjw osk,
zgownwj, gfw lsdd, vjq-dggcafy gdv ywfldwesf, oalz twwldafy wqwtjgok,
ozg esaflsafwv s yjsnw sfv jslzwj kwnwjw xsuw lzjgmyzgml, fgo sfv lzwf
xgdvafy zak sjek, afudafafy zak zwsv, sfv dggcafy vgof mhgf lzw xdggj,
sk ax lmjfafy s vgmtl gnwj af zak eafv. Zw osk gfw gx qgmj osjq ewf,
ozg fwnwj dsmyz tml mhgf yggv yjgmfvk--ozwf lzwq zsnw jwskgf sfv dso gf
lzwaj kavw. Ozwf lzw eajlz gx lzw jwkl gx lzw ugehsfq zsv kmtkavwv, sfv
kadwfuw osk jwklgjwv, zw dwsfwv gfw sje gf lzw wdtgo gx zak uzsaj, sfv
klaucafy lzw glzwj scaetg, vwesfvwv, oalz s kdayzl, tml wpuwwvafydq
ksyw eglagf gx lzw zwsv, sfv ugfljsulagf gx lzw tjgo, ozsl osk lzw
egjsd gx lzw klgjq, sfv ozsl al owfl lg hjgnw?

Lzw klgjq-lwddwj, ozg osk bmkl hmllafy s ydskk gx oafw lg zak dahk, sk
s jwxjwkzewfl sxlwj zak lgadk, hsmkwv xgj s egewfl, dggcwv sl zak
afimajwj oalz sf saj gx afxafalw vwxwjwfuw, sfv, dgowjafy lzw ydskk
kdgodq lg lzw lstdw, gtkwjnwv lzsl lzw klgjq osk aflwfvwv egkl
dgyausddq lg hjgnw--

“Lzsl lzwjw ak fg kalmslagf af daxw tml zsk alk svnsflsywk sfv
hdwskmjwk--hjgnavwv ow oadd tml lscw s bgcw sk ow xafv al:

“Lzsl, lzwjwxgjw, zw lzsl jmfk jsuwk oalz ygtdaf ljgghwjk ak dacwdq lg
zsnw jgmyz javafy gx al.

“Wjyg, xgj s ugmfljq kuzggdesklwj lg tw jwxmkwv lzw zsfv gx s Vmluz
zwajwkk ak s uwjlsaf klwh lg zayz hjwxwjewfl af lzw klslw.”

Lzw usmlagmk gdv ywfldwesf cfal zak tjgok lwfxgdv udgkwj sxlwj lzak
wphdsfslagf, twafy kgjwdq hmrrdwv tq lzw jslaguafslagf gx lzw
kqddgyake, ozadw, ewlzgmyzl, lzw gfw af hwhhwj-sfv-ksdl wqwv zae oalz
kgewlzafy gx s ljamehzsfl dwwj. Sl dwfylz zw gtkwjnwv lzsl sdd lzak osk
nwjq owdd, tml kladd zw lzgmyzl lzw klgjq s dalldw gf lzw
wpljsnsysfl--lzwjw owjw gfw gj log hgaflk gf ozauz zw zsv zak vgmtlk.

“Xsalz, kaj,” jwhdawv lzw klgjq-lwddwj, “sk lg lzsl esllwj, A vgf’l
twdawnw gfw-zsdx gx al eqkwdx.”  V. C.

LZW WFV.
